<h2> <a id="THE_AWAKENING_OF_HICKEY">THE AWAKENING OF HICKEY</a></h2>
<hr class="full"/>
<p>"'He forged a thunderbolt and hurled it at what?
At the proudest blood in Europe, the Spaniard, and
sent him home conquered; at the most warlike blood
in Europe, the French'"....</p>
<p>Shrimp Davis, on the platform, piped forth the
familiar periods of Phillips's oration on Toussaint
L'Ouverture, while the Third Form in declamation,
disposed to sleep, stirred fitfully on one another's
shoulders, resenting the adolescent squeak that rendered
perfect rest impossible. Pa Dater followed
from the last bench, marking the position of the
heels, the adjustment of the gesture to the phrase,
and the rise and fall of the voice with patient enthusiasm,
undismayed by the memory of the thousand
Toussaints who had passed, or the certainty of
the thousands who were to come.</p>
<p>"I would call him Napoleon, but Napoleon made
his way to empire over broken oaths and through a
sea of <span class="smcap">Blood</span>," shrieked the diminutive orator with
a sudden crescendo as a spitball, artfully thrown,
sung by his nose.</p>
<p>At this sudden shrill notice of approaching manhood,
Hickey, in the front row, roused himself with
a jerk, put both fists in his eyes and glanced with
indignant reproach at the embattled disturber of
his privileges. Rest now being impossible, he decided
to revenge himself by putting forth a series
of faces as a sort of running illustration to the
swelling cadences. Shrimp Davis struggled manfully
to keep his eyes from the antics of his tormentor.
He accosted the ceiling, he looked sadly on
the floor. He gazed east and west profoundly,
through the open windows, seeking forgetfulness in
the distant vistas. All to no purpose. Turn where
he might the mocking face of Hickey danced after
him. At the height of his eloquence Shrimp choked,
clutched at his mouth, exploded into laughter and
tumbled ingloriously to his seat amid the delighted
shrieks of the class.</p>
<p>Pa Dater, surprised and puzzled, rose with solemnity
and examined the benches for the cause of the
outbreak. Then taking up a position on the platform,
from which he could command each face, he
scanned the roll thoughtfully and announced, "William
Orville Hicks."</p>
<p>Utterly unprepared and off his guard, Hickey
drew up slowly to his feet. Then a flash of inspiration
came to him.</p>
<p>"Please, Mr. Dater," he said with simulated regret,
"I chose the same piece."</p>
<p>Delighted, he settled down, confident that the fortunate
coincidence would at least postpone his appearance.</p>
<p>"Indeed," said Mr. Dater with a merciless smile,
"isn't that extraordinary! Well, Hicks, try and
lend it a new charm."</p>
<p>Hickey hesitated with a calculating glance at the
already snickering class. Then forced to carry
through the bravado, he climbed over the legs of his
seat-mates and up to the platform, made Mr. Dater
a deep bow, and gave the class a quick bob of his
head, accompanied by a confidential wink from that
eye which happened to be out of the master's scrutiny.
He glanced down, shook the wrinkles from his
trousers, buttoned his coat, shot his cuffs and assumed
the recognised Websterian attitude. Twice
he cleared his throat while the class waited expectantly
for the eloquence that did not surge. Next
he frowned, took one step forward and two back,
sunk his hands in his trousers and searched for the
missing sentences on the moulding that ran around
the edge of the ceiling.</p>
<p>"Well, Hicks, what's wrong?" said the master
with difficult seriousness. "Haven't learned it?"</p>
<p>"Oh, yes, sir," said Hickey with dignity.</p>
<p>"What's the matter then?"</p>
<p>"Please, sir," said Hickey, with innocent frankness,
"I'm afraid I'm a little embarrassed."</p>
<p>The class guffawed loud and long. The idea of
Hickey succumbing to such an emotion was irresistible.
Shrimp Davis sobbed hysterically and gratefully.</p>
<p>Hickey alone remained solemn, grieved and misunderstood.</p>
<p>"Well, Hicks," continued the master with the
ghost of a smile, "embarrassment is something that
you should try to overcome."</p>
<p>At this Turkey Reiter led Shrimp Davis out in
agony.</p>
<p>"Very well," said Hickey with an injured look,
"I'll try, sir. I'll do my best. But I don't think the
conditions are favourable."</p>
<p>Mr. Dater commanded silence. Hickey bowed
again and raised his head cloaked in seriousness. A
titter acclaimed him. He stopped and looked appealingly
at the master.</p>
<p>"Go on, Hicks, go on," said Mr. Dater. "Do
your best. At least, let us hear the words."</p>
<p>Another inspiration came to Hickey. "I don't
think that this is quite regular, sir," he said aggressively.
"I have always taken an interest in my
work, and I don't see why I should be made to sacrifice
a good mark."</p>
<p>Mr. Dater bit his lips and quieted the storm with
two upraised fingers.</p>
<p>"Nevertheless, Hicks," he said, "I think we shall
allow you to continue."</p>
<p>"What!" exclaimed Hickey as though loath to
credit his ears. Then adding calm to dignity, he
said, "Very well, sir,—not prepared!"</p>
<p>With the limp of a martyr, he turned his back on
Mr. Dater, and returned to his seat, where he sat in
injured dignity, disdaining to notice the grimaces of
his companions.</p>
<p>Class over, the master summoned Hicks, and bent
his brows, boring him with a look of inquisitorial accusation.</p>
<p>"Hicks," he said, spacing his words, "I have felt,
for the last two weeks, a certain lack of discipline
here. Just a word to the wise, Hicks, just a word to
<i>the wise</i>!"</p>
<p>Hickey was pained. Where was the evidence to
warrant such a flat accusation? He had been arraigned
on suspicion, that was all, absolutely on mere
haphazard suspicion. And this was justice?</p>
<p>Moreover, Hickey's sensitive nature was shocked.
He had always looked upon Pa Dater as an antagonist
for whose sense of fair play he would have answered
as for his own. And now to be accused thus
with innuendo and veiled menace—then he could have
faith in no master, not one in the whole faculty! And
this grieved Hickey mightily as he went moodily
along the halls.</p>
<p>Now, the code of a schoolboy's ethics is a marvellously
fashioned thing—and by that each master
stands or falls. To be accused of an offence of which
he is innocent means nothing, for it simply demonstrates
the lower calibre of the master's intelligence.
But to be suspected and accused on mere suspicion
of something which he has just committed,—that
is unpardonable, and in absolute violation of the
laws of warfare, which decree that the struggle shall
be one of wits, without recourse to the methods of
the inquisition.</p>
<p>Hickey, disillusionised and shocked, went glumly
down the brownstone steps of Memorial and slowly
about the green circle, resisting the shouted invitations
to tarry under the nourishing apple trees.</p>
<p>He felt in him an imperative need to strike back,
to instantly break some rule of the tyranny that encompassed
him. With this heroic intention he walked
nonchalantly up the main street to the jigger-shop,
which no underformer may enter until after four. As
he approached the forbidden haunt, suddenly the
figure of Mr. Lorenzo Blackstone Tapping, the young
assistant housemaster at the Dickinson, more popularly
known as "Tabby," rolled up on a bicycle.</p>
<p>"Humph, Hicks!" said at once Mr. Tapping
with a suspicious glance at the jigger-shop directly
opposite, "how do you happen to be here out of
hours?"</p>
<p>"Please, sir," said Hickey glibly, "I've got a
nail that's sticking into my foot. I was just going
to Bill Orum's to get it fixed."</p>
<p>"Humph!" Mr. Tapping gave him a searching
look, hesitated and mounting his wheel continued, unconvinced.</p>
<p>"He looked back," said Hickey wrathfully, peering
through the misty windows of the cobbler's shop.
Then smarting at the injury, he added, "He didn't
believe me—the sneak!"</p>
<p>It was a second reminder of the tyranny he lived
under. He waited a moment, found the coast clear
and flashed across to the jigger-shop. Half drugstore,
half confectioner's, the jigger-shop was the
property of Doctor Furnell, whose chief interest in
life consisted in a devotion to the theory of the millennium,
to the lengthy expounding of which an impoverished
boy would sometimes listen in the vain
hope of establishing a larger credit. On every-day
occasions the shop was under the charge of "Al,"
a creature without heart or pity, who knew the exact
financial status of each of the four hundred odd
boys, even to the amount and date of his allowance.
Al made no errors, his sympathies were deaf to the
call, and he never (like the doctor), committed the
mistake of returning too much change.</p>
<p>Al welcomed him with a grunt, carefully closing
the little glass doors that protected the tray of
éclairs and fruit cake, and leaning back drawled:</p>
<p>"What's the matter, Hickey? You look kind of
discouraged."</p>
<p>"Give me a coffee jigger, with a chocolate syrup
and a dash of whipped cream—stick a meringue in
it," said Hickey. Then as Al remained passively expectant,
he drew out a coin, saying, "Oh, I've got
the money!"</p>
<p>He ate gloomily and in silence, refusing to be
drawn into conversation. Something was wrong in
the scheme of things. Twice in the same hour
he had been regarded with suspicion and an accusing
glance,—his simplest explanation discountenanced!
Up to this time, he had been like a hundred other
growing boys, loving mischief for mischief's sake,
entering into a lark with no more definite purpose
than the zest of an adventure. Of course he regarded
a master as the Natural Enemy, but he had
viewed him with the tolerance of an agile monkey
for a wolf who does not climb. Now slowly it began
to dawn upon him that there was an ethical side.</p>
<p>He vanished suddenly behind the counter as Mr.
Tapping, returning, made directly for the jigger-shop.
Hickey, at the end of the long counter,
crouching amid stationery, heard him moving suspiciously
toward his hiding place. Quickly he
flicked a pencil down behind the counter and vanished
through the back entrance as Tapping, falling into
the trap, sprang in the direction of the noise.</p>
<p>The adventure served two purposes: it gave
Hickey the measure of the enemy, and it revealed
to him where first to strike.</p>
<h3>II</h3>
<p>The President of the Dickinson by virtue of the
necessary authority to suppress all insubordination
was Turkey Reiter, broad of shoulder, speckled and
battling of face, but the spirit of the Dickinson was
Hickey. Hickey it was, lank of figure and keen of
feature, bustling of gait and drawling of speech,
with face as innocent as a choir-boy's, who planned
the revolts against the masters, organised the midnight
feasts and the painting of water-towers. His
genius lived in the nicknames of the Egghead,
Beauty Sawtelle, Morning Glory, Red Dog, Wash
Simmons and the Coffee Cooler, which he had bestowed
on his comrades with unfailing felicity.</p>
<p>Great was Hickey, and Macnooder was his prophet.
Doc Macnooder roomed just across the hall.
He was a sort of genius of all trades. He played
quarter on the eleven and ran the half mile close to
the two-minute mark. He was the mainstay of
Banjo, Mandolin and Glee Clubs. He played the
organ in chapel and had composed the famous Hamill
House March in memory of his requested departure
from that abode. He organised the school dramatic
club. He was secretary and treasurer of his class
and of every organisation to which he belonged. He
received a commission from a dozen firms to sell to
his likenesses, stationery, athletic goods, choice sets
of books, fin de siecle neckties, fancy waistcoats,
fountain pens and safety razors, all of which articles,
if report is to be credited, he sold with ease and
eloquence at ten per cent. above the retail price.
His room was a combination of a sorcerer's den and
junk-shop. At one corner a row of shelves held a
villainous array of ill-smelling black, green and blue
bottles, with which he was prepared to instantly cure
anything from lockjaw to snake bite.</p>
<p>The full measure of Macnooder's activities was
never known. Turkey Reiter had even surprised
him drawing up a will for Bill Orum, the cobbler,
to whom he had just sold a cure for rheumatism.</p>
<p>It was to Macnooder that Hickey opened his
heart and his need of vengeance. It cannot be said
that the ethical side of the struggle appealed to
Macnooder, who had small predilection for philosophy
and none at all for the moral sciences, but
the love of mischief was strong. The encounter with
Tapping in the morning had suggested a victim near
at hand and conveniently inexperienced.</p>
<p>Mr. Tapping in advance of young Mr. Baldwin
(of whom it shall be related) had arrived at
Lawrenceville the previous year with latter-day
theories on the education of boys. As luck would
have it, Mr. Rogers, the housemaster, would be absent
that evening at a little dinner of old classmates
in Princeton, leaving the entire conduct of the Dickinson
in the hands of his assistant. In passing, it
must be noted that between the two masters there
was little sympathy. Mr. Rogers had lived too long
in the lair of the boy to be at all impressed with the
new ideas on education that Mr. Tapping and later
Mr. Baldwin advocated in the blissful state of their
ignorance.</p>
<p>At three o'clock, Tapping departed to convey to
a class of impatient boys, decked out in athletic
costumes with base-balls stuffed in their pockets and
tennis rackets waiting at their sides, the interesting
shades of distinction in that exciting study, Greek
prose composition. Then Hickey gleefully, while
Macnooder guarded the stairs, entered the study, and
with a screw-driver loosened the screw which held the
inner door-knob, to the extent that it could later be
easily removed with the fingers.</p>
<p>At half past seven o'clock, when study hour had
begun, Hickey entered the sanctum ostensibly for
advice on a perplexing problem in advanced algebra.</p>
<p>Mr. Tapping did not like Hickey. He regarded
him with suspicion, with an instinctive recognition
of an enemy. Also he was engaged in the difficult
expression of a certain letter which, at that time, presented
more difficulties than the binomial theorem.
So he inquired with short cordiality, concealing the
written page under a blotter:</p>
<p>"Well, Hicks, what is it?"</p>
<p>"Please, Mr. Tapping," said Hickey, who had
perceived the move with malignant delight, "I wish
you'd look at this problem,—it won't work out."
He added (shades of a thousand boys!), "I think
there must be some mistake in the book."</p>
<p>Now, the chief miseries of a young assistant master
centre about the study hours; when theory demands
that he should be ready to advise and instruct
the discouraged boyish mind on any subject figuring
in the curriculum, whatever be his preference or his
prejudice. Mr. Tapping, who romped over the
Greek and Latin page, had an hereditary weakness
in the mathematics, a failing that the boys had discovered
and instantly turned to their profit. He
took the book, glanced at the problem and began to
jot down a line of figures. Hickey, meanwhile, with
his back to the door, brazenly extracted the loosened
screw.</p>
<p>Finally, Mr. Tapping, becoming hopelessly entangled,
raised his head and said with a disdainful
smile: "Hicks, I think you had better put a little
work on this—just a little work!"</p>
<p>"Mr. Tapping, I don't understand it," said
Hickey, adding to himself, "Old Tabby is up a
tree!"</p>
<p>"Nonsense—perfectly easy, perfectly simple,"
said Tapping, returning the book with a gesture of
dismissal, "requires a little application, Hicks, just
a little application—that's all."</p>
<p>Hickey, putting on his most injured look, bowed
to injustice and departed at the moment that Turkey
Reiter entered, seeking assistance in French. Upon
his tracks, without an interval, succeeded Macnooder
with a German composition, Hungry Smeed to discuss
history, the Egghead on a question of spelling,
and Beauty Sawtelle in thirst for information about
the Middle Ages. Finally, Mr. Tapping's patience,
according to Macnooder's prophetic calculation,
burst on a question of biblical interpretation, and
announcing wrathfully that he could no longer be
disturbed, he ushered out the last tormentor and shut
the door with violence.</p>
<p>Presently Hickey stole up on tiptoe and fastening
a noose over the knob, gave a signal. The string,
pulled by a dozen equally responsible hands, carried
away the knob, which fell with a tiny crash and spun
in crazy circles on the floor. The fall of the inner
useless knob was heard on the inside of the door and
the exclamation that burst from the startled master.
The tyrant was caged,—the house was at their
pleasure!</p>
<p>Mr. Tapping committed the initial mistake of
knocking twice imperiously on the door and commanding,
"Open at once."</p>
<p>Two knocks answered him. Then he struck three
violent blows and three violent echoes returned, while
a bunch of wriggling, chuckling boys clustered at
every crack of the door, listening with strained ears
for the muffled roars that came from within.</p>
<p>While one group began a game of leap-frog, another,
under the guidance of Hickey, descended into
the housemaster's quarters and proceeded to attend
to the rearrangement of the various rooms. Working
beaver-like with whispered cautions, they rapidly
exchanged the furniture of the parlour with the
dining-room, grouping each transformed room, exactly
as the original had been.</p>
<p>Then they placed the six-foot water-cooler directly
in front of the entrance with a tin pan balanced, to
give the alarm, and shaking with silent expectant
laughter extinguished all lights, undressed and returned
to the corridors, white, shadowy forms, to
wait developments. Meanwhile, the caged assistant
master continued to pound upon the door with a
fury that betokened a state of approaching hysteria.</p>
<p>At half past ten, suddenly the tin pan crashed
horribly on the floor. A second later every boy was
sleeping loudly in his bed. Astonished at such a reception,
Mr. Rogers groped into the darkness and
fell against the water-cooler, which in his excitement
he embraced and carried over with him to the floor.
Recovering himself, he lighted the gas and perceived
the transformed parlour and dining-room. Then he
started for the assistant housemaster's rooms, with
long, angry bounds, saying incoherent, expressive
things to himself.</p>
<p>The ordeal that young Mr. Tapping faced, from
his superior, one hour later when the door had been
opened, was distinctly unpleasant, and was not made
the more agreeable from the fact that every rebuke
resounded through the house, and carried joy and
comfort to the listening boys.</p>
<p>The housemaster would hear no explanation; in
fact, explanations were about the last thing he
wanted. He desired to express his disgust, his indignation
and his rage, and he did so magnificently.</p>
<p>"May I say one word, sir?" said Mr. Tapping
in a lull.</p>
<p>"Quite unnecessary, Mr. Tapping," cut in the
still angry master; "I don't wish any explanations.
Such a thing as this has never happened in the history
of this institution. That's all I wish to know.
You forget that you are not left in charge of a
young ladies' seminary."</p>
<p>"Very well, sir," said the mortified Mr. Tapping.
"May I ask what you intend to do about this act of
insubordination?"</p>
<p>"That is what I intend to ask <i>you</i>, sir," replied
his superior. "Good-night."</p>
<p>The next day after luncheon, Mr. Tapping summoned
the house to his study and addressed them as
follows:</p>
<p>"Young gentlemen of the Dickinson House, I
don't think you have any doubt as to why I have
called you here. A very serious breach of discipline
has taken place—one that cannot be overlooked. The
sooner we meet the situation in the right spirit,
gravely, with seriousness, the sooner will we meet
each other in that spirit of harmony and friendly understanding
that should exist between pupil and master.
I am willing to make some allowance for the
spirit of mischief, but none for an exhibition of untruthfulness.
I warn you that I know, that I <i>know</i>
who were the ringleaders in last night's outrage."
Here he stopped and glanced in succession at each
individual boy. Then suddenly turning, he said:</p>
<p>"Hicks, were you concerned in this?"</p>
<p>"Mr. Tapping," said Hickey, with the air of a
martyr, "I refuse to answer."</p>
<p>"On what ground?"</p>
<p>"On the ground that I will not furnish any clue
whatsoever."</p>
<p>"I shall deal with your case later."</p>
<p>"Very well, sir."</p>
<p>"Macnooder," continued Mr. Tapping, "what
do you know about this?"</p>
<p>"I refuse to answer, sir."</p>
<p>At each demand, the same refusal.</p>
<p>Tapping, repulsed in his first attempt, hesitated
and reflected. Above all things he did not wish to
perpetuate last night's humiliation, and to continue
the combat meant an accusation <i>en bloc</i> against the
Dickinson House before the head master.</p>
<p>"Hicks, Macnooder and Reiter, wait here," he
said suddenly; "the rest may go."</p>
<p>He walked up and down before the three a moment,
and then said: "Reiter, you may go; you, too,
Macnooder."</p>
<p>Hickey, thus deprived of all support, remained
defiant.</p>
<p>"May I ask," he said indignantly, "why I am
picked out?"</p>
<p>"Hicks," said Mr. Tapping sternly, without replying
to the question, "I know pretty well who was
the ringleader in this, and other things that have
been going on in the past. I warn you, my boy, I
shall keep my eye on you from this time forth.
That's all I want to say to you. Look out for
yourself!"</p>
<p>Hickey could hardly restrain the tears. He went
out with deadly wrath boiling in his heart. The idea
of singling him out from the whole house in that
way! So then every hand was against him; he had
no security; he was marked for suspicion, his downfall
determined upon!</p>
<p>For one brief moment his spirit, the spirit of indomitable,
battling boyhood, failed him, and he felt
the grey impossibility of contending against tyrants.
But only a moment, and then with a return
of the old fighting spirit he suddenly conceived the
idea of single-handedly defying the whole organised
hereditary and intrenched tyranny that sought to
crush him, of matching his wits against the hydra
despotism, perhaps, going down gloriously like Spartacus,
for the cause, but leaving behind a name
that should roll down the generations of future boys.</p>
<h2> <a id="THE_GREAT_PANCAKE_RECORD">THE GREAT PANCAKE RECORD</a></h2>
<hr class="full"/>
<p>Little Smeed stood apart, in the obscure shelter
of the station, waiting to take his place on the
stage which would carry him to the great new
boarding-school. He was frail and undersized, with
a long, pointed nose and vacant eyes that stupidly
assisted the wide mouth to make up a famished face.
The scarred bag in his hand hung from one clasp,
the premature trousers were at half-mast, while
pink polka-dots blazed from the cuffs of his nervous
sleeves.</p>
<p>By the wheels of the stage "Fire Crackers" Glendenning
and "Jock" Hasbrouck, veterans of the
Kennedy House, sporting the 'varsity initials on
their sweaters and caps, were busily engaged in
cross-examining the new boys who clambered timidly
to their places on top. Presently, Fire Crackers,
perceiving Smeed, hailed him.</p>
<p>"Hello, over there—what's your name?"</p>
<p>"Smeed, sir."</p>
<p>"Smeed what?"</p>
<p>"Johnnie Smeed."</p>
<p>The questioner looked him over with disfavour
and said aggressively:</p>
<p>"You're not for the Kennedy?"</p>
<p>"No, sir."</p>
<p>"What house?"</p>
<p>"The Dickinson, sir."</p>
<p>"The Dickinson, eh? That's a good one," said
Fire Crackers, with a laugh, and, turning to his
companion, he added, "Say, Jock, won't Hickey
and the old Turkey be wild when they get this
one?"</p>
<p>Little Smeed, uncomprehending of the judgment
that had been passed, stowed his bag inside and
clambered up to a place on the top. Jimmy, at the
reins, gave a warning shout. The horses, stirred by
the whip, churned obediently through the sideways
of Trenton.</p>
<p>Lounging on the stage were half a dozen newcomers,
six well-assorted types, from the well-groomed
stripling of the city to the aggressive, big-limbed
animal from the West, all profoundly under
the sway of the two old boys who sat on the box
with Jimmy and rattled on with quiet superiority.
The coach left the outskirts of the city and rolled
into the white highway that leads to Lawrenceville.
The known world departed for Smeed. He gazed
fearfully ahead, waiting the first glimpse of the
new continent.</p>
<p>Suddenly Fire Crackers turned and, scanning the
embarrassed group, singled out the strong Westerner
with an approving glance.</p>
<p>"You're for the Kennedy?"</p>
<p>The boy, stirring uneasily, blurted out:</p>
<p>"Yes, sir."</p>
<p>"What's your name?"</p>
<p>"Tom Walsh."</p>
<p>"How old are you?"</p>
<p>"Eighteen."</p>
<p>"What do you weigh?"</p>
<p>"One hundred and seventy."</p>
<p>"Stripped?"</p>
<p>"What? Oh, no, sir—regular way."</p>
<p>"You've played a good deal of football?"</p>
<p>"Yes, sir."</p>
<p>Hasbrouck took up the questioning with a critical
appreciation.</p>
<p>"What position?"</p>
<p>"Guard and tackle."</p>
<p>"You know Bill Stevens?"</p>
<p>"Yes, sir."</p>
<p>"He spoke about you; said you played on the
Military Academy. You'll try for the 'varsity?"</p>
<p>"I guess so."</p>
<p>Hasbrouck turned to Fire Crackers in solemn conclave.</p>
<p>"He ought to stand up against Turkey if he
knows anything about the game. If we get a good
end we ought to give that Dickinson crowd the fight
of their lives."</p>
<p>"There's a fellow came from Montclair they say
is pretty good," Fire Crackers said, with solicitous
gravity. "The line'll be all right if we can get some
good halves. That's where the Dickinson has it on
us."</p>
<p>Smeed listened in awe to the two statesmen studying
out the chances of the Kennedy eleven for the
house championship, realising suddenly that there
were new and sacred purposes about his new life
of which he had no conception. Then, absorbed by
the fantasy of the trip and the strange unfolding
world into which he was jogging, he forgot the
lords of the Kennedy, forgot his fellows in ignorance,
forgot that he didn't play football and was only a
stripling, forgot everything but the fascination
of the moment when the great school would rise
out of the distance and fix itself indelibly in his
memory.</p>
<p>"There's the water-tower," said Jimmy, extending
the whip; "you'll see the school from the top of
the hill."</p>
<p>Little Smeed craned forward with a sudden thumping
of his heart. In the distance, a mile away, a
cluster of brick and tile sprang out of the green,
like a herd of red deer surprised in the forest.
Groups of boys began to show on the roadside.
Strange greetings were flung back and forth.</p>
<p>"Hello-oo, Fire Crackers!"</p>
<p>"How-de-do, Saphead!"</p>
<p>"Oh, there, Jock Hasbrouck!"</p>
<p>"Oh, you Morning Glory!"</p>
<p>"Oh, you Kennedys, we're going to lick you!"</p>
<p>"Yes you are, Dickinson!"</p>
<p>The coach passed down the shaded vault of the
village street, turned into the campus, passed the
ivy-clad house of the head master and rolled around
a circle of well-trimmed lawn, past the long, low
Upper House where the Fourth Form gazed at them
in senior superiority; past the great brown masses
of Memorial Hall and the pointed chapel, around to
where the houses were ranged in red, extended
bodies. Little Smeed felt an abject sinking of the
heart at this sudden exposure to the thousand eyes
fastened upon him from the wide esplanade of the
Upper, from the steps of Memorial, from house,
windows and stoops, from the shade of apple trees
and the glistening road.</p>
<p>All at once the stage stopped and Jimmy cried:</p>
<p>"Dickinson!"</p>
<p>At one end of the red-brick building, overrun with
cool vines, a group of boys were lolling in flannels
and light jerseys. A chorus went up.</p>
<p>"Hello, Fire Crackers!"</p>
<p>"Hello, Jock!"</p>
<p>"Hello, you Hickey boy!"</p>
<p>"Hello, Turkey; see what we've brought you!"</p>
<p>Smeed dropped to the ground amid a sudden hush.</p>
<p>"Fare," said Jimmy aggressively.</p>
<p>Smeed dug into his pocket and tendered the necessary
coin. The coach squeaked away, while from
the top Fire Crackers' exulting voice returned in
insolent exultation:</p>
<p>"Hard luck, Dickinson! Hard luck, you, old
Hickey!"</p>
<p>Little Smeed, his hat askew, his collar rolled up,
his bag at his feet, stood in the road, alone in the
world, miserable and thoroughly frightened. One
path led to the silent, hostile group on the steps,
another went in safety to the master's entrance. He
picked up his bag hastily.</p>
<p>"Hello, you—over there!"</p>
<p>Smeed understood it was a command. He turned
submissively and approached with embarrassed steps.
Face to face with these superior beings, tanned and
muscular, stretched in Olympian attitudes, he realised
all at once the hopelessness of his ever daring to
associate with such demi-gods. Still he stood, shifting
from foot to foot, eyeing the steps, waiting for
the solemn ordeal of examination and classification
to be over.</p>
<p>"Well, Hungry—what's your name?"</p>
<p>Smeed comprehended that the future was decided,
and that to the grave he would go down as "Hungry"
Smeed. With a sigh of relief he answered:</p>
<p>"Smeed—John Smeed."</p>
<p>"Sir!"</p>
<p>"Sir."</p>
<p>"How old?"</p>
<p>"Fifteen."</p>
<p>"Sir!!"</p>
<p>"Sir."</p>
<p>"What do you weigh?"</p>
<p>"One hundred and six—sir!"</p>
<p>A grim silence succeeded this depressing information.
Then some one in the back, as a mere matter
of form, asked:</p>
<p>"Never played football?"</p>
<p>"No, sir."</p>
<p>"Baseball?"</p>
<p>"No, sir."</p>
<p>"Anything on the track?"</p>
<p>"No, sir."</p>
<p>"Sing?"</p>
<p>"No, sir," said Smeed, humbly.</p>
<p>"Do anything at all?"</p>
<p>Little Smeed glanced at the eaves where the swallows
were swaying and then down at the soft couch
of green at his feet and answered faintly:</p>
<p>"No, sir—I'm afraid not."</p>
<p>Another silence came, then some one said, in a
voice of deepest conviction:</p>
<p>"A dead loss!"</p>
<p>Smeed went sadly into the house.</p>
<p>At the door he lingered long enough to hear the
chorus burst out:</p>
<p>"A fine football team we'll have!"</p>
<p>"It's a put-up job!"</p>
<p>"They don't want us to win the championship
again—that's it!"</p>
<p>"I say, we ought to kick."</p>
<p>Then, after a little, the same deep voice:</p>
<p>"A dead loss!"</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>With each succeeding week Hungry Smeed comprehended
more fully the enormity of his offence
in doing nothing and weighing one hundred and six
pounds. He saw the new boys arrive, pass through
the fire of christening, give respectable weights and
go forth to the gridiron to be whipped into shape
by Turkey and the Butcher, who played on the school
eleven. Smeed humbly and thankfully went down
each afternoon to the practice, carrying the sweaters
and shin-guards, like the grateful little beast
of burden that he was. He watched his juniors,
Spider and Red Dog, rolling in the mud or flung
gloriously under an avalanche of bodies; but then,
they weighed over one hundred and thirty, while
he was still at one hundred and six—a dead loss!
The fever of house loyalty invaded him; he even came
to look with resentment on the Faculty and to repeat
secretly to himself that they never would have
unloaded him on the Dickinson if they hadn't been
willing to stoop to any methods to prevent the
House again securing the championship.</p>
<p>The fact that the Dickinson, in an extraordinary
manner, finally won by the closest of margins,
consoled Smeed but a little while. There were no
more sweaters to carry, or pails of barley water to
fetch, or guard to be mounted on the old rail-fence,
to make certain that the spies from the Davis and
Kennedy did not surprise the secret plays which
Hickey and Slugger Jones had craftily evolved.</p>
<p>With the long winter months he felt more keenly
his obscurity and the hopelessness of ever leaving
a mark on the great desert of school life that would
bring honour to the Dickinson. He resented even
the lack of the mild hazing the other boys received—he
was too insignificant to be so honoured. He
was only a "dead loss," good for nothing but to
squeeze through his recitations, to sleep enormously,
and to eat like a glutton with a hunger that could
never be satisfied, little suspecting the future that
lay in this famine of his stomach.</p>
<p>For it was written in the inscrutable fates that
Hungry Smeed should leave a name that would go
down imperishably to decades of schoolboys, when
Dibbles' touchdown against Princeton and Kafer's
home run should be only tinkling sounds. So it happened,
and the agent of this divine destiny was
Hickey.</p>
<p>It so happened that examinations being still in
the threatening distance, Hickey's fertile brain was
unoccupied with methods of facilitating his scholarly
progress by homely inventions that allowed formulas
and dates to be concealed in the palm and disappear
obligingly up the sleeve on the approach of
the Natural Enemy. Moreover, Hickey and Hickey's
friends were in straitened circumstances, with all
credit gone at the jigger-shop, and the appetite
for jiggers in an acute stage of deprivation.</p>
<p>In this keenly sensitive, famished state of his
imagination, Hickey suddenly became aware of a
fact fraught with possibilities. Hungry Smeed had
an appetite distinguished and remarkable even in
that company of aching voids.</p>
<p>No sooner had this pregnant idea become his
property than Hickey confided his hopes to Doc
Macnooder, his chum and partner in plans that were
dark and mysterious. Macnooder saw in a flash the
glorious and lucrative possibilities. A very short
series of tests sufficed to convince the twain that in
little Smeed they had a phenomenon who needed only
to be properly developed to pass into history.</p>
<p>Accordingly, on a certain muddy morning in
March, Hickey and Doc Macnooder, with Smeed in
tow, stole into the jigger-shop at an hour in defiance
of regulations and fraught with delightful risks of
detection.</p>
<p>Al, the watch-dog of the jigger, was tilted back,
near a farther window, the parted tow hair falling
doglike over his eyes, absorbed in the reading of
Spenser's Faerie Queen, an abnormal taste which
made him absolutely incomprehensible to the boyish
mind. At the sound of the stolen entrance, Al put
down the volume and started mechanically to rise.
Then, recognising his visitors, he returned to his
chair, saying wearily:</p>
<p>"Nothing doing, Hickey."</p>
<p>"Guess again," said Hickey, cheerily. "We're
not asking you to hang us up this time, Al."</p>
<p>"You haven't got any money," said Al, the recorder
of allowances; "not unless you stole it."</p>
<p>"Al, we don't come to take your hard-earned
money, but to do you good," put in Macnooder
impudently. "We're bringing you a little sporting
proposition."</p>
<p>"Have you come to pay up that account of
yours?" said Al. "If not, run along, you Macnooder;
don't waste my time, with your wildcat schemes."</p>
<p>"Al, this is a sporting proposition," took up
Hickey.</p>
<p>"Has <i>he</i> any money?" said Al, who suddenly remembered
that Smeed was not yet under suspicion.</p>
<p>"See here, Al," said Macnooder, "we'll back
Smeed to eat the jiggers against you—for the
crowd!"</p>
<p>"Where's your money?"</p>
<p>"Here," said Hickey; "this goes up if we lose."
He produced a gold watch of Smeed's, and was about
to tender it when he withdrew it with a sudden caution.
"On the condition, if we win I get it back and
you won't hold it up against my account."</p>
<p>"All right. Let's see it."</p>
<p>The watch was given to Al, who looked it over,
grunted in approval, and then looked at little
Smeed.</p>
<p>"Now, Al," said Macnooder softly, "give us a
gambling chance; he's only a runt."</p>
<p>Al considered, and Al was wise. The proposition
came often and he had never lost. A jigger is unlike
any other ice cream; it is dipped from the
creamy tin by a cone-shaped scoop called a jigger,
which gives it an unusual and peculiar flavour.
Since those days the original jigger has been contaminated
and made ridiculous by offensive alliances
with upstart syrups, meringues and macaroons with
absurd titles; but then the boy went to the simple
jigger as the sturdy Roman went to the cold waters
of the Tiber. A double jigger fills a large soda-glass
when ten cents has been laid on the counter,
and two such glasses quench all desire in the normal
appetite.</p>
<p>"If he can eat twelve double jiggers," Al said
slowly, "I'll set them up and the jiggers for youse.
Otherwise, I'll hold the watch."</p>
<p>At this there was a protest from the backers of
the champion, with the result that the limit was reduced
to ten.</p>
<p>"Is it a go?" Al said, turning to Smeed, who had
waited modestly in the background.</p>
<p>"Sure," he answered, with calm certainty.</p>
<p>"You've got nerve, you have," said Al, with a
scornful smile, scooping up the first jiggers and
shoving the glass to him. "Ten doubles is the record
in these parts, young fellow!"</p>
<p>Then little Smeed, methodically, and without apparent
pain, ate the ten doubles.</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>Conover's was not in the catalogue that anxious
parents study, but then catalogues are like epitaphs
in a cemetery. Next to the jigger-shop, Conover's
was quite the most important institution in the
school. In a little white Colonial cottage, Conover,
veteran of the late war, and Mrs. Conover, still in
active service, supplied pancakes and maple syrup
on a cash basis, two dollars credit to second-year
boys in good repute. Conover's, too, had its traditions.
Twenty-six pancakes, large and thick, in one
continuous sitting, was the record, five years old,
standing to the credit of Guzzler Wilkins, which succeeding
classes had attacked in vain. Wily Conover,
to stimulate such profitable tests, had solemnly
pledged himself to the delivery of free pancakes to
all comers during that day on which any boy, at one
continuous sitting, unaided, should succeed in swallowing
the awful number of thirty-two. Conover
was not considered a prodigal.</p>
<p>This deed of heroic accomplishment and public
benefaction was the true goal of Hickey's planning.
The test of the jigger-shop was but a preliminary
trying out. With medical caution, Doc Macnooder
refused to permit Smeed to go beyond the ten doubles,
holding very wisely that the jigger record could
wait for a further day. The amazed Al was sworn
to secrecy.</p>
<p>It was Wednesday, and the following Saturday
was decided upon for the supreme test at Conover's.
Smeed at once was subjected to a graduated system
of starvation. Thursday he was hungry, but Friday
he was so ravenous that a watch was instituted on
all his movements.</p>
<p>The next morning the Dickinson House, let into
the secret, accompanied Smeed to Conover's. If there
was even a possibility of free pancakes, the House
intended to be satisfied before the deluge broke.</p>
<p>Great was the astonishment at Conover's at the
arrival of the procession.</p>
<p>"Mr. Conover," said Hickey, in the quality of
manager, "we're going after that pancake record."</p>
<p>"Mr. Wilkins' record?" said Conover, seeking
vainly the champion in the crowd.</p>
<p>"No—after that record of <i>yours</i>," answered
Hickey. "Thirty-two pancakes—we're here to
get free pancakes to-day—that's what we're here
for."</p>
<p>"So, boys, so," said Conover, smiling pleasantly;
"and you want to begin now?"</p>
<p>"Right off the bat."</p>
<p>"Well, where is he?"</p>
<p>Little Smeed, famished to the point of tears, was
thrust forward. Conover, who was expecting something
on the lines of a buffalo, smiled confidently.</p>
<p>"So, boys, so," he said, leading the way with alacrity.
"I guess we're ready, too."</p>
<p>"Thirty-two pancakes, Conover—and we get 'em
free!"</p>
<p>"That's right," answered Conover, secure in his
knowledge of boyish capacity. "If that little boy
there can eat thirty-two I'll make them all day free
to the school. That's what I said, and what I say
goes—and that's what I say now."</p>
<p>Hickey and Doc Macnooder whispered the last
instructions in Smeed's ear.</p>
<p>"Cut out the syrup."</p>
<p>"Loosen your belt."</p>
<p>"Eat slowly."</p>
<p>In a low room, with the white rafters impending
over his head, beside a basement window flanked
with geraniums, little Smeed sat down to battle for
the honour of the Dickinson and the record of the
school. Directly under his eyes, carved on the wooden
table, a name challenged him, standing out of the
numerous initials—Guzzler Wilkins.</p>
<p>"I'll keep count," said Hickey. "Macnooder and
Turkey, watch the pancakes."</p>
<p>"Regulation size, Conover," cried that cautious
Red Dog; "no doubling now. All fair and above-board."</p>
<p>"All right, Hickey, all right," said Conover, leering
wickedly from the door; "if that little grasshopper
can do it, you get the cakes."</p>
<p>"Now, Hungry," said Turkey, clapping Smeed
on the shoulder. "Here is where you get your
chance. Remember, Kid, old sport, it's for the
Dickinson."</p>
<p>Smeed heard in ecstasy; it was just the way Turkey
talked to the eleven on the eve of a match. He
nodded his head with a grim little shake and smiled
nervously at the thirty-odd Dickinsonians who
formed around him a pit of expectant and hungry
boyhood from the floor to the ceiling.</p>
<p>"All ready!" sang out Turkey, from the doorway.</p>
<p>"Six pancakes!"</p>
<p>"Six it is," replied Hickey, chalking up a monster
6 on the slate that swung from the rafters. The
pancakes placed before the ravenous Smeed vanished
like snow-flakes on a July lawn.</p>
<p>A cheer went up, mingled with cries of caution.</p>
<p>"Not so fast."</p>
<p>"Take your time."</p>
<p>"Don't let them be too hot."</p>
<p>"Not too hot, Hickey!"</p>
<p>Macnooder was instructed to watch carefully over
the temperature as well as the dimensions.</p>
<p>"Ready again," came the cry.</p>
<p>"Ready—how many?"</p>
<p>"Six more."</p>
<p>"Six it is," said Hickey, adding a second figure to
the score. "Six and six are twelve."</p>
<p>The second batch went the way of the first.</p>
<p>"Why, that boy is starving," said Conover, opening
his eyes.</p>
<p>"Sure he is," said Hickey. "He's eating 'way back
in last week—he hasn't had a thing for ten days."</p>
<p>"Six more," cried Macnooder.</p>
<p>"Six it is," answered Hickey. "Six and twelve
is eighteen."</p>
<p>"Eat them one at a time, Hungry."</p>
<p>"No, let him alone."</p>
<p>"He knows best."</p>
<p>"Not too fast, Hungry, not too fast."</p>
<p>"Eighteen for Hungry, eighteen. Hurrah!"</p>
<p>"Thirty-two is a long ways to go," said Conover,
gazing apprehensively at the little David who had
come so impudently into his domain; "fourteen pancakes
is an awful lot."</p>
<p>"Shut up, Conover."</p>
<p>"No trying to influence him there."</p>
<p>"Don't listen to him, Hungry."</p>
<p>"He's only trying to get you nervous."</p>
<p>"Fourteen more, Hungry—fourteen more."</p>
<p>"Ready again," sang out Macnooder.</p>
<p>"Ready here."</p>
<p>"Three pancakes."</p>
<p>"Three it is," responded Hickey. "Eighteen
and three is twenty-one."</p>
<p>But a storm of protest arose.</p>
<p>"Here, that's not fair!"</p>
<p>"I say, Hickey, don't let them do that."</p>
<p>"I say, Hickey, it's twice as hard that way."</p>
<p>"Oh, go on."</p>
<p>"Sure it is."</p>
<p>"Of course it is."</p>
<p>"Don't you know that you can't drink a glass of
beer if you take it with a teaspoon?"</p>
<p>"That's right, Red Dog's right! Six at a time."</p>
<p>"Six at a time!"</p>
<p>A hurried consultation was now held and the reasoning
approved. Macnooder was charged with the
responsibility of seeing to the number as well as
the temperature and dimensions.</p>
<p>Meanwhile Smeed had eaten the pancakes.</p>
<p>"Coming again!"</p>
<p>"All ready here."</p>
<p>"Six pancakes!"</p>
<p>"Six," said Hickey; "twenty-one and six is twenty-seven."</p>
<p>"That'll beat Guzzler Wilkins."</p>
<p>"So it will."</p>
<p>"Five more makes thirty-two."</p>
<p>"Easy, Hungry, easy."</p>
<p>"Hungry's done it; he's done it."</p>
<p>"Twenty-seven and the record!"</p>
<p>"Hurrah!"</p>
<p>At this point Smeed looked about anxiously.</p>
<p>"It's pretty dry," he said, speaking for the first
time.</p>
<p>Instantly there was a panic. Smeed was reaching
his limit—a groan went up.</p>
<p>"Oh, Hungry."</p>
<p>"Only five more."</p>
<p>"Give him some water."</p>
<p>"Water, you loon; do you want to end him?"</p>
<p>"Why?"</p>
<p>"Water'll swell up the pancakes, crazy."</p>
<p>"No water, no water."</p>
<p>Hickey approached his man with anxiety.</p>
<p>"What is it, Hungry? Anything wrong?" he
said tenderly.</p>
<p>"No, only it's a little dry," said Smeed, unmoved.
"I'm all right, but I'd like just a drop of
syrup now."</p>
<p>The syrup was discussed, approved and voted.</p>
<p>"You're sure you're all right," said Hickey.</p>
<p>"Oh, yes."</p>
<p>Conover, in the last ditch, said carefully:</p>
<p>"I don't want no fits around here."</p>
<p>A cry of protest greeted him.</p>
<p>"Well, son, that boy can't stand much more.
That's just like the Guzzler. He was taken short
and we had to work over him for an hour."</p>
<p>"Conover, shut up!"</p>
<p>"Conover, you're beaten."</p>
<p>"Conover, that's an old game."</p>
<p>"Get out."</p>
<p>"Shut up."</p>
<p>"Fair play."</p>
<p>"Fair play! Fair play!"</p>
<p>A new interruption came from the kitchen. Macnooder
claimed that Mrs. Conover was doubling the
size of the cakes. The dish was brought. There was
no doubt about it. The cakes were swollen. Pandemonium
broke loose. Conover capitulated, the
cakes were rejected.</p>
<p>"Don't be feazed by that," said Hickey, warningly
to Smeed.</p>
<p>"I'm not," said Smeed.</p>
<p>"All ready," came Macnooder's cry.</p>
<p>"Ready here."</p>
<p>"Six pancakes!"</p>
<p>"Regulation size?"</p>
<p>"Regulation."</p>
<p>"Six it is," said Hickey, at the slate. "Six and
twenty-seven is thirty-three."</p>
<p>"Wait a moment," sang out the Butcher. "He
has only to eat thirty-two."</p>
<p>"That's so—take one off."</p>
<p>"Give him five, Hickey—five only."</p>
<p>"If Hungry says he can eat six," said Hickey,
firmly, glancing at his protégé, "he can. We're out
for big things. Can you do it, Hungry?"</p>
<p>And Smeed, fired with the heroism of the moment,
answered in disdainful simplicity:</p>
<p>"Sure!"</p>
<p>A cheer that brought two Davis House boys running
in greeted the disappearance of the thirty-third.
Then everything was forgotten in the amazement
of the deed.</p>
<p>"Please, I'd like to go on," said Smeed.</p>
<p>"Oh, Hungry, can you do it?"</p>
<p>"Really?"</p>
<p>"You're goin' on?"</p>
<p>"Holy cats!"</p>
<p>"How'll you take them?" said Hickey, anxiously.</p>
<p>"I'll try another six," said Smeed, thoughtfully,
"and then we'll see."</p>
<p>Conover, vanquished and convinced, no longer
sought to intimidate him with horrid suggestions.</p>
<p>"Mr. Smeed," he said, giving him his hand in
admiration, "you go ahead; you make a great record."</p>
<p>"Six more," cried Macnooder.</p>
<p>"Six it is," said Hickey, in an awed voice; "six
and thirty-three makes thirty-nine!"</p>
<p>Mrs. Conover and Macnooder, no longer antagonists,
came in from the kitchen to watch the great
spectacle. Little Smeed alone, calm and unconscious,
with the light of a great ambition on his forehead,
ate steadily, without vacillation.</p>
<p>"Gee, what a stride!"</p>
<p>"By Jiminy, where does he put it?" said Conover,
staring helplessly.</p>
<p>"Holy cats!"</p>
<p>"Thirty-nine—thirty-nine pancakes—gee!!!"</p>
<p>"Hungry," said Hickey, entreatingly, "do you
think you could eat another—make it an even
forty?"</p>
<p>"Three more," said Smeed, pounding the table
with a new authority. This time no voice rose in remonstrance.
The clouds had rolled away. They
were in the presence of a master.</p>
<p>"Pancakes coming."</p>
<p>"Bring them in!"</p>
<p>"Three more."</p>
<p>"Three it is," said Hickey, faintly. "Thirty-nine
and three makes forty-two—forty-two. Gee!"</p>
<p>In profound silence the three pancakes passed
regularly from the plate down the throat of little
Smeed. Forty-two pancakes!</p>
<p>"Three more," said Smeed.</p>
<p>Doc Macnooder rushed in hysterically.</p>
<p>"Hungry, go the limit—the limit! If anything
happens I'll bleed you."</p>
<p>"Shut up, Doc!"</p>
<p>"Get out, you wild man."</p>
<p>Macnooder was sent ignominiously back into the
kitchen, with the curses of the Dickinson, and Smeed
assured of their unfaltering protection.</p>
<p>"Three more," came the cry from the chastened
Macnooder.</p>
<p>"Three it is," said Hickey. "Forty-two and
three makes—forty-five."</p>
<p>"Holy cats!"</p>
<p>Still little Smeed, without appreciable abatement
of hunger, continued to eat. A sense of impending
calamity and alarm began to spread. Forty-five
pancakes, and still eating! It might turn into a
tragedy.</p>
<p>"Say, bub—say, now," said Hickey, gazing anxiously
down into the pointed face, "you've done
enough—don't get rash."</p>
<p>"I'll stop when it's time," said Smeed; "bring
'em on now, one at a time."</p>
<p>"Forty-six, forty-seven, forty-eight, forty-nine!"</p>
<p>Suddenly, at the moment when they expected
him to go on forever, little Smeed stopped, gazed
at his plate, then at the fiftieth pancake, and said:</p>
<p>"That's all."</p>
<p>Forty-nine pancakes! Then, and only then, did
they return to a realisation of what had happened.
They cheered Smeed, they sang his praises, they
cheered again, and then, pounding the table, they
cried, in a mighty chorus:</p>
<p>"We want pancakes!"</p>
<p>"Bring us pancakes!"</p>
<p>"Pancakes, pancakes, we want pancakes!"</p>
<p>Twenty minutes later, Red Dog and the Egghead,
fed to bursting, rolled out of Conover's, spreading
the uproarious news.</p>
<p>"Free pancakes! Free pancakes!"</p>
<p>The nearest houses, the Davis and the Rouse,
heard and came with a rush.</p>
<p>Red Dog and the Egghead staggered down into
the village and over to the circle of houses, throwing
out their arms like returning bacchanalians.</p>
<p>"Free pancakes!"</p>
<p>"Hungry Smeed's broken the record!"</p>
<p>"Pancakes at Conover's—free pancakes!"</p>
<p>The word jumped from house to house, the campus
was emptied in a trice. The road became choked
with the hungry stream that struggled, fought,
laughed and shouted as it stormed to Conover's.</p>
<p>"Free pancakes! Free pancakes!"</p>
<p>"Hurrah for Smeed!"</p>
<p>"Hurrah for Hungry Smeed!!"</p>
<h2> <a id="THE_RUN_THAT_TURNED_THE_GAME">THE RUN THAT TURNED THE GAME</a></h2>
<hr class="full"/>
<p>In this same fall of Hungry Smeed's arrival, when
the Dickinson, the Cleve, the Woodhull, the Griswold,
the Hamill, the Kennedy, and the Davis, were
each separately convinced that the faculty was seeking
to prevent its winning the football championship,
by filling the house with boys under weight and
under size, there arrived at the Kennedy the now
celebrated "Piggy" Moore. He did not come on
the top of the stage as new boys should, but drove up
in a carriage, in the company of an aunt, who departed
with misgivings, after kissing him in the full
sight of the campus.</p>
<p>For she had raised Piggy on the bottle of gentle
manners and rocked him in the cradle of innocent
and edifying ambitions until the manly age of sixteen.
His hands were soft and manicured, he entered
a room with grace and left it with distinction.
His body was swathed in plumpness. His face was
chubby and well nourished, with fat, indolent eyes
and wide nostrils. He was five feet eight and
weighed a hundred and fifty.</p>
<p>Without embarrassment or anxiety he went to his
room, removed his coat, folded it neatly on a chair,
turned up his sleeves and proceeded to spread on
his bureau a toilet-set of chaste silver. He was
neatly arranging eight pairs of shoes, carefully
treed, when his name was shouted from the hall.</p>
<p>"Oh, Moore! Hello there!"</p>
<p>He emerged hurriedly to find Captain Hasbrouck
in football togs, eyeing him critically and without
enthusiasm.</p>
<p>"Football practice, Moore!"</p>
<p>"It will take me an hour or so, I'm afraid," said
Moore, smiling politely, "that is, to put my things
in order and get thoroughly unpacked."</p>
<p>"Sir!"</p>
<p>Piggy was surprised. The voice was harsh, rude
and ominous, and the figure of Hasbrouck quite
obscured the doorway.</p>
<p>"Yes, sir!" he said hastily. "I'll be right down,
sir."</p>
<p>"Have you got any football togs?" said Hasbrouck,
looking at the toilet set.</p>
<p>"No, sir."</p>
<p>"A sweater?"</p>
<p>"No, sir."</p>
<p>"Well, we only want a little light practice. Get
your things to-night in the village. On the jump
now!"</p>
<p>Moore hastily trooped down with the others and
followed across the long green stretches in the
tingly September air, a little apprehensive of what
the term "light practice" might mean. The veterans
in scarred suits and rent jerseys marched
gloriously in front, gambolling and romping with
the ball, shouting out salutations to parties who
swarmed over the campus from other houses on
the way to the playgrounds. The newcomers in
hastily patched-up costumes, incongruous and absurd,
clustered together talking in broken, forced
monosyllables. Suddenly the advance halted and a
shout went up.</p>
<p>"Here come the Dickinsons. Gee, look at the
material they've got!"</p>
<p>Piggy, uncomprehending, beheld a group of thirty-odd
boys swinging toward them, shouting and laughing
as they came. From the advancing crowd came
a challenging yell.</p>
<p>"We're going to wipe the earth up with you,
Kennedy."</p>
<p>"Good-bye, Kennedy. Good-bye!"</p>
<p>From the Kennedys the challenge was flung back:</p>
<p>"We've got you where we want you."</p>
<p>"You'll be easy, Dickinson."</p>
<p>"We'll attend to the championship this year."</p>
<p>The two crowds halted while the leaders inspected
their antagonists, sizing up the new material. Moore,
in a tailor-cut suit of English tweed, a stiff collar
and a derby hat, felt for the first time a little out
of the picture when Hickey of the enemy paused in
front of him and derisively asked:</p>
<p>"Where did that come from?"</p>
<p>"Oh, that's been specially raised for us."</p>
<p>"He has? In a hothouse, yes! What'll <i>he</i>
play?"</p>
<p>"He'll play all over the field. <i>He's</i> a regular demon!"</p>
<p>"Huh!"</p>
<p>"We'll twist your tail, Dickinson."</p>
<p>"We'll skin you, Kennedy."</p>
<p>"Yes, you will!"</p>
<p>"Yes, we will!"</p>
<p>The groups departed, each vowing that it was
disheartening the way the faculty had favoured the
other.</p>
<p>On the playground "Jock" Hasbrouck and
"Fire Crackers" Glendenning held a consultation
while the old boys frolicked with the ball and the
new arrivals huddled in an embarrassed group.</p>
<p>The new material was excellent, beyond expectation,
but no joy appeared on the face of the captain.</p>
<p>"How in the deuce are we ever going to beat the
Dickinsons with such a bunch as that?" he said,
with a shake of his head. "What do we need anyhow?"</p>
<p>"Both ends, a tackle and the halves," said Fire
Crackers, gloomily.</p>
<p>"Well, we've got to do our best, that's all," said
the captain, with a glance that made every newcomer
miserable. "Let's see how we can line up. Fatty
Harris, get in at centre, there. Keg, you'll have
to go in at right guard. Buffalo, you stay at
left."</p>
<p>The old boys, brawny and hard, formed into a
centre trio.</p>
<p>"If you take left tackle we'd better put Walsh
in at right to face Turkey," said Fire Crackers.
"Legs Brockett, there, plays end, he says."</p>
<p>Walsh and Brockett, eyes to the ground, took
their places in the line at a nod from "Jock."</p>
<p>"Duke Wilson, full; Fire Crackers, quarter.
What then?" he said slowly to his counsel. "Suppose
we give Pebbles Stone a chance at half this
year?"</p>
<p>"What do you weigh, Pebbles?" asked Fire
Crackers.</p>
<p>"One hundred and forty-five," brazenly answered
the lithe, but rather frail person addressed.</p>
<p>"Honest?"</p>
<p>"Honest to God, Jock."</p>
<p>"Stripped?"</p>
<p>"No—o-o. With ten pounds in me pockets."</p>
<p>"Well, get in there, you old liar, you've got the
sand all right."</p>
<p>Pebbles, with a delighted whoop, sprang into
line. Then Fire Crackers and Jock stopped before
a trim, cleanly-built boy with a suit that looked
worthy.</p>
<p>"You're Francis, ain't you?"</p>
<p>"Yes, sir."</p>
<p>"Played half?"</p>
<p>"Yes, sir."</p>
<p>"What do you weigh?"</p>
<p>"One hundred and fifty, stripped, sir."</p>
<p>"Take right half."</p>
<p>Francis, quickly, but with an air of ease, took
his place. Only one position remained vacant, left
end. Hasbrouck glanced over the squad of slight,
overgrown boys, and his eye by a process of elimination,
rested on Moore, standing stiff and immaculate.</p>
<p>"Moore, get in to right end."</p>
<p>"Me?" said Moore in horror.</p>
<p>"Sir!"</p>
<p>"Sir."</p>
<p>"Quick!"</p>
<p>"But I—I've never played, sir!"</p>
<p>"Get into line!"</p>
<p>Piggy went sullenly, indignant and cherishing resistance.
Hasbrouck gave a professionally pessimistic
glance at the whole and said:</p>
<p>"Well, fellows, we'll only take a little light practice
to-day. Try a few starts."</p>
<p>The candidates in threes and fours crouched on a
designated line, dug their toes in the sod and raced
forward at the clap of a hand, for a good fifteen
yards.</p>
<p>"Take your place, Moore," said Jock finally.
"Dig down and get off with a jump."</p>
<p>Piggy, embarrassed by the stiffness of his collar
and the difficulty of retaining his derby without loss
of dignity, made a lumbering attempt.</p>
<p>"Try again. You're not racing a baby buggy!
Get back on your marks," said Hasbrouck, and moving
to a position directly behind him, he thundered:
"Now, one—two—<i>three</i>!"</p>
<p>A stinging hand descended upon the crouching
Piggy, who leaped forward in indignant amazement.</p>
<p>"That helped," said Jock, with an approving nod.
"Once more."</p>
<p>Piggy, red to the ears, a second time was forced
to humble himself and receive the indignity of such
propulsion.</p>
<p>"Here, Piggy, catch!"</p>
<p>Moore had just time to spin around, when a football
vigorously thrown, smote him full in the stomach.</p>
<p>"Oh, butter-fingers!"</p>
<p>"Clumsy!"</p>
<p>"Get your arms in to it!"</p>
<p>"Now!"</p>
<p>Warned by a chorus of instructions Moore strove
a dozen times to retain the tantalising spinning oval,
which constantly slipped his grasp with a smart
reminder as it bounded away.</p>
<p>"My boy, your education has been neglected,"
said Jock in disgust. "At least try and learn how
to fall on the ball. Watch."</p>
<p>Rolling the pigskin in front of him, he dove for
it, pouncing on it as a beagle on a rabbit.</p>
<p>"Now, Piggy, let her go!"</p>
<p>Moore, who loved his tailor-suit with the pride
and affection which a father bestows only on the firstborn,
desperately essayed to secure the pigskin with
the minimum of danger possible.</p>
<p>A shriek of derision burst forth.</p>
<p>"No, my dear Miss Moore, I did not ask you to
lie down and pillow your head upon it," said Jock
in disgust. "That is <i>not</i> what is called falling on
the ball. Go at it like a demon; chew it up, mangle
it! Here, Morning Glory," he added, turning to
a scrubby little urchin who was gambolling about,
"take this young lady and show her how it's
done."</p>
<p>To Piggy's culminating mortification, the diminutive
Morning Glory, with a contemptuous sneer, began
to instruct him in the new art, with a rattling
fire of insults which drew shrieks of laughter from
the squad.</p>
<p>"Now then, old ice-wagon—get your nose in it."</p>
<p>"Don't spare the daisies, dearest."</p>
<p>"Jump, you Indian, jump!"</p>
<p>"Ah, watch me—like this."</p>
<p>The urchin hurled himself viciously on the ball,
ploughing up the soft turf, and bounding gloriously
to his feet, with scornful, mud-stained face, cried:</p>
<p>"Ah, what're you afraid of! Now then, old
house-boat!"</p>
<p>Piggy's collar clung limply to his neck, half the
buttons of his coat had gone, streaks of yellow and
green decorated the suit a custom tailor had fashioned
for fifty dollars cash, but still he was forced
to go tumbling after the ball, down and up, up and
down, head over heels, at the staccato shriek of the
Morning Glory, like the one dog in the show who
circles about the stage, tumbling somersaults.</p>
<p>"That's enough for to-day," came at last Jock's
welcome command. "We must begin easily. To-morrow
we'll get into it. Practice over! Moore,
jog around the circle six times and cut out pastry at
supper."</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>During the dinner a great light dawned over
Moore, as he sat silently investigating his new masters
with sidelong, calculated glances. He went to
his room and with one sweep eliminated the solid
silver toilet set, removed the trees from his boots,
packed away the pink embroidered bedroom slippers
so neatly arranged under the bed and pruned solicitously
among the gorgeous cravats. Then he went
to the village and, under skilful prompting, bought
a pair of corduroy trousers, a cap, a red-and-black
jersey, the softest pair of football trousers in stock,
a jersey padded at the elbows and shoulders, a
sweater, a pair of heavy shoes, a nose protector, and
a pair of shin-guards. Incased in every possible
protection he reported next day for the dreadful ordeal
of tackling and being tackled.</p>
<p>"So you've all got your togs," said Fire Crackers,
surveying the squad of freshmen on the field. "Let's
see how you made out."</p>
<p>With Keg Smith and Jock, he passed them over
in inspection, punching and poking the new suits
with brief interjections, until Moore was reached.
Before that swollen figure the three halted in mock
amazement.</p>
<p>"Who's this?" said Keg, with a blank face.</p>
<p>"It's Moore, sir," said Piggy innocently.</p>
<p>"What's happened to you?" continued Fire
Crackers with great seriousness.</p>
<p>Moore, perceiving he had blundered again, grew
red with mortification, while Fire Crackers stripped
the sweater from him and examined the jersey.</p>
<p>"Say, just see what Bill sold him!" he exclaimed.
"Isn't it a shame how he'll impose on the green
ones? Look at that bed ticking! And those pads!
Gee, I'll fix that!"</p>
<p>Before Moore could protest, Fire Crackers had
ripped off the protections and flung them away.</p>
<p>"Now you'll feel easier," he said with a friendly
smile. "Bill Appleby is an infernal old swindler:
selling you shin-guards and a nose-protector! Huh!
Throw 'em away."</p>
<p>"Thank you, sir," said Moore gratefully, "I'll
make him take them back."</p>
<p>"That's right," said his inquisitor with a queer
nod, "you're pretty green at this, aren't you?"</p>
<p>"I have never done much, sir."</p>
<p>"Well, let me give you a pointer; when you tackle,
you want to grit your teeth and slam down hard,
then you don't feel it at all."</p>
<p>"Thank you, sir."</p>
<p>"And when you're tackled," continued Fire
Crackers with perfect seriousness, "just let yourself
go limp; then you can't break any bones—see?"</p>
<p>"Yes, sir."</p>
<p>"You like the game, don't you?"</p>
<p>"Oh, very much."</p>
<p>Fire Crackers' advice did him scant good. On the
whole it was probably the most painful afternoon he
had ever known in his life. He had no instinct for
tackling, that was certain. His arms slipped, his
hands could not fasten to anything and he accomplished
nothing more than to go sprawling, face
downward.</p>
<p>"Funny you don't get on to that," said Jock,
shaking his head. "I tell you what you do. Run
down the line and take a few tackles; then you'll see
how it's done."</p>
<p>Moore stood balancing, looking down to where
Jock's one hundred and sixty-five pounds were gathering
for a model tackle. Every natural instinct in
him bade him turn tail and run.</p>
<p>"Come on now!" cried Jock, spitting on his
hands. "Hard as you can."</p>
<p>Piggy went as a horse goes to a road-crusher,
faltering and finally stopping dead. The next moment,
Jock, cleaving the air in a perfect dive, caught
him about the knees and threw him crashing to the
ground. Piggy rose with difficulty.</p>
<p>"Do you get it now?" said Jock solicitously.</p>
<p>"I think I do," said Moore faintly.</p>
<p>"Well now, try one on me," said Jock, brightening.
"Put your shoulder into it and squeeze it.
Remember now."</p>
<p>Piggy remembered only the sensation of being
tackled, and with the thought of that greater evil,
improved astonishingly.</p>
<p>"That's the way to learn," said Jock approvingly.
"Now, notice how I pull your legs from under
you, and try to get that."</p>
<p>That evening after supper, Moore valiantly determined
to take the bull by the horns. Seizing a
favourable opportunity, he accosted his captain with
the resolution of despair, and told him point blank
that he would not be eligible for the team.</p>
<p>"Why not?" said Jock aggressively.</p>
<p>"I don't know anything about the game, sir,"
said Moore defiantly, "and I don't like it."</p>
<p>"Is that the only reason?"</p>
<p>"I don't want to play, sir—that ought to be
enough."</p>
<p>"We're not <i>asking</i> you what you want to do."</p>
<p>"But, sir, I don't like it," said Moore, beginning
to shrink under the cold, boring gaze of Hasbrouck.</p>
<p>"That has nothing to do with it, either."</p>
<p>"Nothing——"</p>
<p>"Certainly not. We don't want you; in fact, we're
crying because we've got to take you. You're a flubdub
and a quitter. But there's no one else, and so,
Piggy, mark you—we're going to make a demon out
of you, a regular demon. Mark my words!"</p>
<p>All of which was accomplished easily and naturally
within a short two weeks by the discipline and tradition
which has put courage into the hearts of generations
of natural cowards.</p>
<p>The crisis came in the first game of the series;
when for the first time, Piggy beheld the terrifying
spectacle of an end run started in his direction. At
the sight of the solid front of bone and muscle ready
to sweep him off his feet and send him tumbling head
over heels, he shut his eyes and funked deliberately
and ingloriously.</p>
<p>The next moment Jock had him by the small of
the neck; Jock's hand jerked him to his feet and
Jock's voice cried:</p>
<p>"You cowardly little pup! You do that again
and I'll tear the hide off you!"</p>
<p>Piggy, chilled to the bone, went to his position.
The opposing team, with a shout of exultation, sent
the same play crashing in his direction. Piggy,
desperate with fear, tore through the advancing
mass, found the runner and hurled him to the ground.
Jock smiled contentedly. Moore was a coward, he
knew, but from that time forth, no passing menace
before him could compare with the abiding terror
that waited behind.</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>Had Moore been possessed of even moderate
courage the task would have been difficult, for then
it would have resolved itself into a mere question of
natural ability. But being an arrant and utter
coward, his very cowardice drove him into feats of
desperate recklessness. For always, in lull or storm,
in the confusion of the mêlée or the open scramble
down the field to cover a punt, Moore felt the ominous
presence of Hasbrouck just at his shoulder
and heard the sharp and threatening cry:</p>
<p>"Get that man, you, Piggy!"</p>
<p>So blindly and rebelliously he served the tyrant,
and unwilling and revolting learned to despise fear,
little suspecting how many reckless spirits of other
teams had been formed under the same rude discipline.</p>
<p>The earlier contests developed the strength of the
two long-time rivals, the Kennedy and the Dickinson,
between whom at last lay the question of supremacy.
The last week approached with excitement at fierce
heat. Every day a fresh rumour was served up:
Hickey, the wily Dickinson quarter, had a weak
ankle; Turkey, the captain, was behind in his
studies; a Princeton 'varsity man was over, coaching
the enemy; the signals were discovered and a dozen
trick plays were being held in reserve, each good
for a touchdown.</p>
<p>Each night on the Kennedy steps, the council of
war convened and plans were discussed in utter gravity
for temporarily crippling and eliminating from
the contest Turkey, Slugger-Jones, Hickey and the
Butcher. For, of course, it was conceded that Jock,
Tom Walsh and Fire Crackers would probably be
maimed for life by the brutal and unscrupulous
enemy.</p>
<p>Piggy, whose critical sense of humour had been under
early disadvantages, took this as exact truth
and beheld the horrible day arrive with an absolute
conviction that it would be his last. He did not
sleep during the night; he could eat nothing during
the day; his fingers trembled and snarled up the
lacings as he forced himself into his football clothes.
Then he stood a long moment, viewing his white face
in the mirror—the last look, perhaps—and went
weakly to join the squad below. He heard nothing
of the magnificent address of Jock to his followers;
one idea only was in his head: to sell his life as dearly
as possible.</p>
<p>While the captains conferred and tossed for position,
the two teams, face to face at last, paced up
and down, eyeing each other with contempt, breathing
forth furious threats.</p>
<p>The Egghead assured Fatty Harris that the
first scrimmage would be his last. Fatty Harris returned
the compliment and suggested that the Egghead
leave a memorandum for the hearse. The
Coffee Cooler looked Buffalo Brown over and sneered;
Keg Smith did as much to the Butcher and laughed.
The diminutive Spider at right end, approached his
dear friend Legs Brockett, his opponent, and muttered
through his teeth:</p>
<p>"I'm going to slug you!"</p>
<p>While these friendly salutations were taking place,
Flea Obie and Wash Simmons, the Dickinson halves,
approached Piggy, who, sick at heart, was stamping
his feet and churning his arms to convey to Red
Dog, opposite, the impression that he was thirsting
for his blood.</p>
<p>Wash gave Piggy one withering glance and said
loudly to the Red Dog:</p>
<p>"This fellow's a quitter. He's got yellow in his
eyes. Smash him good and hard, Red Dog. Don't
waste any time about it, either."</p>
<p>"He's got a chicken liver," said Red Dog, who
looked a reed beside the sturdy Piggy. "He shuts
his eyes when he tackles! I'll fix him. Huh!"</p>
<p>"Ah, go on now, go on, go on," said Piggy, with
a desperate attempt at lightheartedness.</p>
<p>Flea Obie, lovely no longer in mud-stained jacket
and pirate band around his forehead, strode up to
Piggy and added:</p>
<p>"Old Sport, let me give you a word of advice.
When we strike your end, the best thing you can do
is to lie down <i>quick and soft</i>. <i>Savez?</i>"</p>
<p>Luckily for Piggy, whose imagination was panic-driven
by this perfectly innocuous braggadocio, the
torrent of conversation was checked by a cry of
exultation.</p>
<p>The Kennedy had won the toss and chose the kickoff.
Bat Finney, umpire from the Fourth Form,
called the two teams together and said solemnly:</p>
<p>"Now I want it understood by you fellows this is
going to be a gentleman's game. No roughing it,
no slugging, nothing brutal. Take your sides."</p>
<p>Immediately the air resounded with war cries:</p>
<p>"Get in there, Dickinson."</p>
<p>"Chew 'em up, Kennedy."</p>
<p>"Hit 'em hard, Buffalo."</p>
<p>"Sock 'em, Turkey."</p>
<p>"Knock 'em out, boys!"</p>
<p>Piggy, at left end with his eye on the ball, waited
hopelessly for Jock to send the oval spinning into
Dickinson territory. He was shivering, in a dead
funk. The whistle blew, the run was on. Piggy went
perfunctorily, helplessly down the field to where the
dreaded Hickey, ball under arm, was dodging
toward him. Suddenly the vigorous form of Wash
Simmons hove into view, headed directly for him.
He wavered and the next moment was knocked off his
feet, while Hickey, the way thus cleared for him,
went bounding back for a run of forty yards.</p>
<p>Meanwhile Piggy was in the hands of Jock, who
administered to him before the eyes of every spectator,
a humiliating and well-placed kick.</p>
<p>"You funked, I saw you funk, you miserable
shivery little coward!" he cried, shaking his fist in
his face. "You jump in there now and cripple a
few of those fellows or I'll massacre you!"</p>
<p>He added a few words which shall remain sacred
between them and shoved him into place. The old
fear awoke triumphant in Piggy. He rushed in like
a demon, whirling over the field, upsetting play after
play, making tackles that brought Flea Obie and
Wash Simmons to their feet rubbing their sides.
Nothing could stop him, for at last he was panic-stricken,
utterly and horribly afraid.</p>
<p>The two teams, evenly matched, fought each other
to a standstill. The first half closed without any
perceptible advantage. The second half continued
the deadlock, the precious minutes slipping away.
Such a struggle had never been known in a House
contest. Several eyes were closed, several bandages
had appeared. The frenzy of battle had taken possession
of the descendants of Goth and Viking.
Challenges to future encounters were flung recklessly
and recklessly accepted. After each mêlée little
clusters of battling boyhood were disentangled with
difficulty, while Bat Finney, the umpire, joyfully
proclaimed:</p>
<p>"No roughing it, fellows—remember, this is a
<i>gentleman's</i> game."</p>
<p>The dusk began to cloud the field and the players,
one of those tragic, melancholy mists that come only
at the close of a desperate second half. Two minutes
only to play and the ball in the Kennedy's possession,
exactly at midfield, without a score.</p>
<p>"6-5-8-15-2-3!" shrieked Fire Crackers, grimy
and unrecognisable.</p>
<p>The team, converging swiftly for a revolving mass
play on tackle, strove wearily to make headway
against the reeling Dickinsons, who, too fagged to
upset the play, could only hold, surging and twisting.
Piggy, scrambling and pushing, head down in the
mêlée, whirled and spun with the revolving mass.
Then his feet tripped and he went underneath, shielding
his head from the vortex of legs that swirled
above him. Suddenly, lying free, a scant five yards
in front of him, he perceived, to his horror, the
precious ball! With a lurch, he freed himself from
the mass, scrambled to his feet, picked up the ball
and set out, break-a-neck, for the far-away goal.
Five yards behind was Hickey, the fleet quarter,
bounding after him.</p>
<p>In a twinkling the whole scene had changed into
the extraordinary spectacle of a stern chase, two
figures well in front, striving for the mastery of the
fates, and behind the futile, scrambling, exulting, or
desperate mass of players, sweeping helplessly on
the tracks of destiny.</p>
<p>Forty yards to the interminable goal! Piggy remembered
with dread the stories of Hickey's fleetness.
He glanced back. His pursuer had not gained an
inch. On the contrary, his freckled face was distorted,
his arms were churning, his teeth were horribly
displayed, biting at the stinging air, with the
agony of the effort to increase his speed. So he
was beating out Hickey, the famous Hickey! Then
the touchdown was a fact! Above the uproar he
heard a strident shriek:</p>
<p>"Piggy, oh, you damned Piggy!"</p>
<p>The terror of that familiar voice gave a new impetus
to his chubby legs. Some one else must be
gaining on him. Thirty yards still to go!</p>
<p>He ran and ran, hugging the ball in his arms, his
head thrown back, gasping for breath. Twenty
yards—fifteen yards! Suddenly swift, glorious
visions rose before him, scenes of jubilation and exultation,
of cheering comrades, celebrations that
would wipe out the long record of humiliation.
Hickey was closer now, but Piggy did not dare to
turn his head; five yards more and the game would be
over and the kingdom of the Kennedy in his grasp.
He sped over the last white chalk line and dropped
triumphant behind the goal posts. The next moment,
Hickey, wily Hickey, screaming with laughter,
flung himself on him.</p>
<p>Piggy gazed about wildly with a sudden horrible
suspicion. He had run over his own goal line and
scored a safety for the Dickinson.</p>
<p>Then Hasbrouck arrived.</p>
<h2> <a id="THE_FUTURE_PRESIDENT">THE FUTURE PRESIDENT</a></h2>
<hr class="full"/>
<p>"Snorky" Green, at the fourth desk of the middle
aisle, gazed dreamily at the forgotten pages of the
divine Virgil. The wide windows let in the warm
breath of June meadows and the tiny sounds of contented
insects roaming in unhuman liberty. Outside
were soft banks to loll upon, from which to watch the
baseball candidates gambolling over the neat diamond,
tennis courts calling to be played upon, and
the friendly "jigger" ready to soothe the parched
highway to the aching void. And for an hour the
tugging souls of forty-two imprisoned little pagans
would have to construe, and parse, and decline, secretly
cursing the fossils who rediscovered those unnecessary
Latin documents.</p>
<p>Eight rows of desks, nine deep, were swept by the
Argus eye of the master from his raised pulpit.
Around the room, immense vacant blackboards shut
them in—dark, hopeless walls over which no convict
might clamber, on which a thousand boys had blundered
and guessed and writ in water.</p>
<p>Lucius Cassius Hopkins, "The Roman," man of
heroic and consular mould, flunker of boys, and deviser
of systems against which even the ingenuity
of a Hickey hurled itself in vain, sat on the rostrum,
pitilessly mowing down the unresisting ranks.</p>
<p>Snorky's tousled hair was more rumpled than ever,
a smudge was on one cheek, where his grimy, ball-stained
hand had unknowingly left its mark. He
was dirty, bored, and unprepared. The dickey at
his throat, formed by the junction of a collar and
two joined cuffs, saved the proprieties and allowed
the body to keep cool. But the spirit of dreams was
upon Snorky, and the hard, rectangular room began
to recede.</p>
<p>He heard indistinctly the low, mocking rumble of
the Roman as his scythe passed down the rows.</p>
<p>"Anything from the Simpson twins to-day? No,
no? Anything from the Davis House combination?
Too bad! too bad! Nothing from the illuminating
Hicks? Yes? No? Too bad! too bad!"</p>
<p>Snorky did not hear him; his eyes were on the
firm torsos of Flash Condit and Charley De Soto
before him—Condit, wonder of the football field,
hero of the touchdown against the Princeton 'varsity,
and De Soto the phenomenal shortstop, both
Olympian spirits doomed to endure the barbed shafts
of Lucius Cassius Hopkins.</p>
<p>He, too,—Snorky,—would go down in the annals
of school history. He remembered the beginning
of an out-curve he had developed that
morning in the lot back of the Woodhull—a
genuine out-curve, Ginger Pop Rooker to the contrary,
notwithstanding. With a little practice he
would master the perplexing in-curve and the drop.
And the Woodhull needed a pitcher badly.
McCarthy had no courage; the Dickinson would
batter him all over the field in the afternoon's game,
and then good-bye to the championship. In his mind
he began the game, trotting hopelessly out into left
field. He saw Hickey, first up for the Dickinson,
get a base on balls—four wide ones in succession.
Slugger Jones, four balls—heavens, to be beaten like
that! Turkey Reiter, third man up, hit a two-bagger;
two runs. Doc Macnooder knocked the first
ball pitched for a clean single; a two-bagger for the
Egghead! Again four balls for Butcher Stevens!
The Red Dog, of all people in the world, to hit
safely! And still they allowed the slaughter to go
on! The Dickinson House was shrieking with joy,
dancing war-dances, back of third, and singing derisive
songs of triumph. Flea Obie went to first
on another base on balls, filling the bases. And
five runs over the plate! Hickey and Turkey on the
line began to dance a cake-walk. From the uproarious
Dickinsonians rose the humiliating wail:</p>
<div class="block2">
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"We're on to his curves, we're on to his curves;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Long-legged McCarthy has lost his nerves."<br/></span>
</div></div>
</div>
<p>McCarthy <i>had</i> lost his nerves. Five runs, the bases
full, and "Wash" Simmons, the Dickinson pitcher,
to the bat. The infield, badly rattled, played in to
catch the runner at home in approved professional
style. Snorky stole in closer and closer until he was
almost back of shortstop. Simmons he knew couldn't
send it out of the diamond. But Wash knocked what
looked to be a clean single, clear over the heads of
the near infield. That was what he had been waiting
for; on the full run he made a desperate dive, caught
the ball one-handed, close to the ground, turned a
somersault, scrambled to second base, and shot the
ball to first before the runner could even check himself!</p>
<p>Nothing like it had ever been seen in Lawrenceville.
Even the Dickinsons generously applauded him as
he came up happy and flushed.</p>
<p>"Snorky, that's the greatest play I ever saw
pulled off. I wish I had made it myself."</p>
<p>He looked up. The speaker was the dashing De
Soto. That from Charley, the greatest ball-player
who ever came to Lawrenceville! Snorky's throat
swelled with emotion. At last they knew his worth.</p>
<p>One run for the Woodhull. Again the Dickinsons
to the bat, and again the rout; one single, a base on
balls, two bases on balls—oh, if he only would get his
chance! One ball, two balls, three balls. Suddenly
McCarthy stopped and clutched his arm with an exclamation
of pain. The team gathered about him.
Snorky sniffed in disdain; he knew that trick, pretending
it was all on account of his arm! What a
quitter McCarthy was, after all! Still, what was to
be done? The team gathered in grave discussion.
No one else had ever pitched.</p>
<p>"Give me a chance," he said suddenly to "Rock"
Bemis, the captain.</p>
<p>"You!" said Rock, with a laugh; "you,
Snorky!"</p>
<p>"Look at me! I can do it," he answered, and
met the other's glare with steady look as heroes
do. Something of the fire in that look convinced
Bemis.</p>
<p>"Why not?" he said. "The game's gone, anyhow.
Go into the box, Snorky, and put them over if
you can."</p>
<p>The teams lined up. With clenched teeth and a
cold streak down his spine he strode into the box.
An insulting yelp went up from the enemy.</p>
<p>Three balls, no strikes, and the bases full! Turkey
at the plate stepped back scornfully to wait for the
fourth ball.</p>
<p>"Strike one!"</p>
<p>Turkey advanced to the utmost limit of the batter's
box, turned his back deliberately on Snorky, and
called out:</p>
<p>"You hit me, and I'll break your neck!"</p>
<p>"Strike two!"</p>
<p>Turkey turned in surprise, looked at him, and deliberated.</p>
<p>"He can't put it over," yelled the gallery. "Yi,
yi, yi!"</p>
<p>Then Turkey seated himself Indian fashion, his
back still to Snorky, and gazed up into the face of
"Tug" Moffat, the catcher. A furious wrangle
ensued, the Woodhull claiming that his position was
illegal, the Dickinson insisting that nothing in the
rules prohibited it. "Stonewall" Jackson, the umpire,
a weak-minded fellow from the Rouse House,
allowed the play.</p>
<p>"Strike three!"</p>
<p>Turkey, crestfallen and muttering, arose and
dusted himself amid the jeers of the onlookers. Doc
Macnooder smote high and low, and then forgot to
smite—three strikes and out. The Egghead, despite
the entreaties of the Dickinson to bring in his house-mates,
could only foul out. The Woodhulls went
wild with delight. He heard Tug, the catcher, whispering
excitedly to De Soto.</p>
<p>"Charley, just watch him! He's got everything—everything!"</p>
<p>Then the Woodhull tied the score on two bases
on balls, and his own two-bagger.</p>
<p>When he walked lightly into the box for the third
inning, Stonewall Jackson had been replaced by De
Soto with the imperious remark: "Here, get out!
I want to watch this."</p>
<p>He gave the great Charley a modest nod.</p>
<p>"When did you ever pitch?" said De Soto, critically.</p>
<p>"Oh, now and then," he answered.</p>
<p>"Well, Snorky, let yourself out."</p>
<p>"Tug can't hold me," he said impudently.
"That's the trouble, Charley."</p>
<p>"Try him."</p>
<p>Tug signalled for an in-shoot. He wound himself
up and let fly. Butcher Stevens flung himself from
the plate, Moffat threw up his mitt in sudden fear.
The ball caromed off and went frolicking past the
back-stop.</p>
<p>"Strike one!"</p>
<p>Tug, puzzled and apprehensive, came up for a consultation.</p>
<p>"Gee! Snorky, give me warning! What do you
think I am—a Statue of Liberty?"</p>
<p>"Charley wants me to let myself out. I'll slow
down on the third strike," he said loftily. "Let the
others go if you want."</p>
<p>Tug, like a Roman gladiator, with undying resolve,
squatted back of the plate and signalled for an
out. No use; no mit of his could ever stop the
frightful velocity of that shoot.</p>
<p>"Stri-ike two!"</p>
<p>"Now ease up a bit," cautioned De Soto.</p>
<p>He sent a floating out-drop that seemed headed for
Butcher Stevens's head, and finally settled gently over
the plate at the waist-line.</p>
<p>"Striker out!"</p>
<p>Moffat no longer tried to hold him, admitting himself
outclassed by the blinding speed of ins and outs,
jump balls, and cross fire that Snorky hurled unerringly
across the plate. The Red Dog and Flea
Obie, plainly unnerved, died like babes in their
tracks. Five strike-outs in two innings!</p>
<p>Then De Soto spoke.</p>
<p>"Here, Snorky, you get out of this!"</p>
<p>A cry of protest came from the Woodhull.</p>
<p>"Yell all you like," said De Soto; "Snorky is
going with me where he belongs."</p>
<p>And, to the amazement of the two houses, he drew
his arm under Snorky's and marched him right over
to the 'varsity diamond.</p>
<p>How the school buzzed and chattered about the
phenomenal rise of the new pitcher! He saw himself
pitching wonderful curves to burly "Cap" Kiefer,
the veteran back-stop, built like a mastodon, who had
all he could do to hold those frightful balls. He saw
the crowds of boys, six deep, who stood reverentially
between times to watch the amazing curves. He
heard pleasurably the chorus of "Ahs!" and
"Ohs!" and "Gees!" which followed each delivery.
Then suddenly he was in the box on the great, clean
diamond, with the eyes of hundreds of boys fastened
prayerfully on him, and the orange-and-black stripes
of a Princeton 'varsity man facing him at the
plate. To beat the Princeton 'varsity—what a
goal!</p>
<p>He saw each striped champion come up gracefully
and retire crestfallen to the bench, even as the Dickinson
batters had done. Inning after inning passed
without a score; not a Princeton man reached first.
Then in the seventh an accident happened. The
first Princeton man up deliberately stepped into the
ball, and the umpire allowed him to take his
base. It was outrageous, but worse was to follow.
On the attempt to steal second, Cap lined a
beautiful ball to the base, but no one covered it—a
mistake in signals! And the runner kept on to
third! Snorky settled down and struck out the next
two batters. The Lawrenceville bleachers rose <i>en
masse</i> and shrieked his praises. Then suddenly
Kiefer, to catch the runner off third, snapped the
ball to Waladoo a trifle, just a trifle, wild; but the
damage was done. 1 to 0 in favor of Princeton.
Even the great Princeton captain, Barrett, said to
him:</p>
<p>"Hard luck, Green! Blamed hard luck!"</p>
<p>But Snorky wasn't beaten yet. The eighth and
ninth innings passed without another Princeton man
reaching first. Nine innings without a hit—wonderful!—and
yet to be beaten by a fluke. One out
for Lawrenceville; two out. The third man up, Cap
Kiefer himself, reached first on an error. "Green
to the bat," sung out the scorer.</p>
<p>Snorky looked around, picked up his bat, and
calmly strode to the plate. He had no fear; he
knew what was going to happen. One ball, one
strike, two strikes. He let the drop pass. What
he wanted was a swift in-shoot. Two balls—too
high. Three balls—wide of the plate. He was not
to be tempted by any such. Two strikes and three
balls; now he must get what he wanted. He cast one
glance at the bleachers, alive with the frantic red-and-black
flags; he heard his comrades calling, beseeching,
imploring. Then his eye settled on the far
green stretch between right and centre field and the
brown masses of Memorial, where no ball before had
ever reached. A home run would drive in Kiefer and
win the game! The chance had come. The Princeton
pitcher slowly began to wind up for the delivery.
Snorky settled into the box, caught his bat with the
grip of desperation, gathered together all his sinews,
and—</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>"Green!" called the sharp, jeering voice of Lucius
Cassius Hopkins.</p>
<p>Snorky sprang to his feet in fright, clutching at
his book. The great home run died in the air.</p>
<p>"Translate."</p>
<p>Snorky gazed helplessly at the page, seeking the
place. He heard the muffled voice of Hickey behind
him whisper:</p>
<p>"The advance, the advance, you chump!"</p>
<p>But to find the place under the hawk eyes of the
Roman was an impossibility. He stared at the page
in a well-simulated attempt, shook his head, and sat
down.</p>
<p>"A very creditable attempt, Green," said the master,
now with a gentle voice. "De Soto?—Nothing
from De Soto? Dear, dear! We'll have to try
Macnooder then. What? Studied the wrong lesson?
How sad! Mistakes will happen. Don't
want to try that, either? No feeling of confidence
to-day; no feeling of confidence." He began to call
them by rows. "Dark, Davis, Denton, Dibble—nothing
in the D's. Farr, Francis, Frey, Frick—nothing
from the F's; nothing from the D. F's.
Very strange! very strange! Little spring fever—yes?
Too bad! too bad! Lesson too long? Yes?
Too long to get any of it? Dear! dear! Every one
studied the review, I see. Excellent moral idea, conscientious;
wouldn't go on until you have mastered
yesterday's lesson. Well, well, so we'll have a beautiful
recitation in the review."</p>
<p>How absurd it was to be flunking under the Roman!
Next year he would show them. He would
rise early in the morning and study hours before
breakfast; he would master everything, absorb everything—declensions
and conjugations, Greek, Roman,
and mediæval civilisation; he would frolic in equations
and toy with logarithms; his translation would be
the wonder of the faculty. He would crush Red Dog
and Crazy Opdyke; he would be valedictorian of his
class. They would speak of him as a phenomenon,
as a prodigy, like Pascal—was it Pascal? What a
tribute the head master would pay him at commencement!
There on the stage before all the people, the
fathers and mothers and sisters, before the Red Dog,
and Ginger Pop Rooker, and Hickey, and all the rest,
sitting open-mouthed while he, Snorky Green, the
crack pitcher and valedictorian of his class, a scholar
such as Lawrenceville had never known—</p>
<p>"Green, Gay, and Hammond, go to the board.
Take your books."</p>
<p>Snorky went hastily and clumsily, waiting as a
gambler waits for his chance.</p>
<p>"Gay, decline hic, hæc, hoc; Green, write out the
gerundive forms of all the verbs in the first paragraph
top of page 163."</p>
<p>Snorky gazed helplessly at the chronicles of
Æneas, and then blankly at the inexorable blackboard,
where so many gerundives had not been inscribed.</p>
<p>He drew his name in lagging letters exactly midway,
at the top, with a symmetrical space above.</p>
<p class="p1 center pmb1"><i>R. B. GREEN</i></p>
<p>Then he searched anxiously for the gerundives that
lurked somewhere in the first paragraph, top of page
163. Then returning to the board he rubbed out
the name with little reluctant dabs and wrote</p>
<p class="p1 center pmb1"><i>ROGER B. GREEN</i></p>
<p>Abandoning the chase for gerundives, he stood off
a few feet and surveyed his labours on the blackboard,
frowned, erased it and wrote dashingly,</p>
<p class="p1 center pmb1"><i>ROGER BALLINGTON GREEN</i></p>
<p>Satisfied, he drew a strong line under it, added
two short crosses and a dot or two, and returned to
his seat.</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>Once more in the abode of dreams he was transported
to college, president of his class, the idol of
his mates, the marvel of the faculty. He hesitated on
the border-line of a great football victory, where,
single-handed, bruised, and suffering, he would win
the game for his college;—and then found higher
levels. War had been declared swiftly and treacherously
by the German Empire. The whole country
was rising to the President's call to arms. A great
meeting of the University was held, and he spoke
with a sudden revelation of a power for oratory he
had never before suspected.</p>
<p>That very afternoon a company was formed under
his leadership. Twenty-four hours later they
marched to the station, and, amid a whirlwind of
cheers and godspeeds, embarked for the front. During
the night, while others slept, he pored over books
of tactics; he studied the campaigns of Cæsar, Napoleon,
Grant, and Moltke. In the first disastrous
year of the war, when the American army was beaten
back at every point and an invading force of Germans
was penetrating from the coast in three sections,
he rose to the command of his regiment, with
the reputation of being the finest disciplinarian in
the army. Their corps was always at the front,
checking the resistless advance of the enemy, saving
their comrades time after time at frightful loss.
Then came that dreadful day when it seemed as
though the Army of the South was doomed to be
surrounded and crushed by the sudden tightening of
the enemy's net before the Army of the Centre could
effect a junction. In the gloomy council he spoke
out. One way of escape there was, but it meant the
sacrifice of five thousand men. Clearly and quickly
he traced his plan, while general, brigadier-general,
and general-in-chief stared in amazement at the new
genius that Hashed before their minds.</p>
<p>"That is the plan," he said calmly, with the
authority of a master mind; "it means the safety
of a hundred thousand, and if a junction can be made
with the Army of the Centre, the Germans can be
stopped and driven back at so-and-so. But this
means the death of five thousand men. There is only
one man who has the right to die so—the man who
proposes it. Give me five regiments, and I will hold
the enemy for thirty-six hours."</p>
<p>He threw his regiments boldly into the enemy's line
of march, and by a sudden rush carried the spur that
dominated the valley. The German army, surprised
and threatened in its most vulnerable spot, forced to
abandon the pursuit, turned to crush the handful of
heroes.</p>
<p>All day long the desperate battalions flung themselves
in vain against the little band. All day long
he walked with drawn sword up and down the thinning
ranks, stiffening their courage. Red Dog and
Ginger Pop called to him, imploring him not to expose
himself—Red Dog and Ginger Pop, whose
idol he now was; yes, and Hickey's and Condit's, too.
But carelessly, defiantly, he stood in full view, his
clothes pierced, his head bared. Then came the
night—the long, fatiguing night, without an instant's
cessation. The carnage was frightful. Half
of the force gone, and twelve hours more to hold out!
That was his promise. And the sickening dawn, with
the shrouded clouds and the expectant vultures, came
stealing out of the East. Until night came again
they must cling to the spur-top and manage to live
in that hurricane of lead. He went down the line,
calling each man by name, rousing them, like a
prophet inspired. The fury of sacrifice seized them.
They fought on, parched and bleeding, while the sun
rose above them and slowly fell. A thousand lives;
half that, and half that again. Five o'clock, and
still two hours to go. He looked about him. Only
a few hundred remained to meet the next charge.
Red Dog and Ginger Pop were cold in death, Hickey
was dying. Of all his school friends, only Flash
Condit remained, staggering at his side. And then
the great masses of the enemy swept over them like
an avalanche, and he fell, unconscious but happy,
with the vision of martyrdom shining above him.</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>Red Dog, on his way back to his seat, knocked
against him, saying angrily:</p>
<p>"Oh, you clumsy!"</p>
<p>Red Dog, of all the world! Red Dog, whom he
had just cheered into a hero's death. Snorky, thus
brought to earth, decided to resuscitate himself and
read the papers, with their big page-broad scareheads
of the fight on the spur. This accomplished,
he decided to end the war. The President, driven by
public clamour, put him in command of the Army of
the South. In three weeks, by a series of rapid Napoleonic
marches, he flung the enemy into morasses
and wilderness, cut their line of communication, and
starved them into surrender; then flinging his army
north, he effected a junction with the Army of the
Centre, sending a laconic message to the President:
"I am here. Give me command, and I will feed the
sea with the remnants of Germany's glory."</p>
<p>Official Washington, intriguing and jealous, cried
out for a court-martial; but the voice of the people,
echoing from coast to coast, gave him his wish. In
one month he swept the middle coast bare of resistance,
fought three enormous battles, and annihilated
the armies of the invaders, ending the war. What a
triumph was his! That wonderful entry into Washington,
with the frenzied roars of multitudes that
greeted him, as he rode simply and modestly, but
greatly, down the Avenue at the head of his old regiment,
in their worn and ragged uniforms, with the
flag shot to shreds proudly carried by the resuscitated
Hickey and Flash Condit, seeing in the crowd
the tear-stained faces of the Roman and the head
master and all his old comrades, amid the waving
handkerchiefs of frantic thousands.</p>
<p>At this point Snorky's emotion overmastered him.
A lump was in his throat. He controlled himself
with difficulty and dignity. He went over the quiet,
stately years until a grateful nation carried him in
triumph into the Presidential chair, nominated by
acclamation and without opposition! He saw the
wonderful years of his ascendency, the wrongs
righted, peace and concord returning to all classes,
the development of science, the uniting into one system
of all the warring branches of education, the
amalgamation of Canada and Mexico into the United
States, the development of an immense merchant fleet,
the consolidation of all laws into one national code,
the establishment of free concerts and theatres for
the people. Then suddenly there fell a terrible
blow, the hand of a maniac struck him down as he
passed through the multitudes who loved him. He
was carried unconscious to the nearest house. The
greatest physicians flocked to him, striving in vain
to fight off the inevitable end. He saw the street
filled with tan-bark and the faces of the grief-stricken
multitude, with Hickey and Red Dog and Ginger Pop
sobbing on the steps and refusing to leave all that
fateful night, while bulletins of the final struggle
were constantly sent to every part of the globe.
And then he died. He heard the muffled peal of
bells, and the sobs that went up from every home in
the land; he saw the houses being decked with crape,
and the people, with aching hearts, trooping into the
churches: for he, the President, the beloved, the great
military genius, the wisest of human rulers, was
dead—dead.</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>Suddenly a titter, a horrible, mocking laugh, broke
through the stately dignity of the national grief.
Snorky, with tears trembling in his eyes, suddenly
brought back to reality, looked up to see Lucius
Cassius Hopkins standing over him with a mocking
smile. From their desks Red Dog and Hickey were
making faces at him, roaring at his discomfiture.</p>
<p>"So Green is dreaming again! Dear, dear!
Dreaming again!" said the deliberate voice.
"Dreaming of chocolate éclairs and the jigger-shop,
eh, Green?"</p>
<h2> <a id="FURTHER_PERSECUTION_OF_HICKEY">FURTHER PERSECUTION OF HICKEY</a></h2>
<hr class="full"/>
<p>Ever since the disillusionising encounter with
Tabby, Hickey, like the obscure Bonaparte before
the trenches of Toulon, walked moodily alone, absorbed
in his own resolves, evolving his immense
scheme of a colossal rebellion. Macnooder, alone,
received the full confidence of the war <i>à outrance</i>
with the faculty which he gradually evolved.</p>
<p>Macnooder was the man of peace, the Mazarin
and the Machiavelli of the Dickinson. He risked
nothing in action, but to his cunning mind with its
legal sense of dangers to be met and avoided, were
brought all the problems of conspiracies against the
discipline of the school. Macnooder pronounced
the scheme of a revolt heroic, all the more so that
he saw an opportunity of essaying his strategy on
large lines.</p>
<p>"We must begin on a small scale, Hickey," he
said wisely, "and keep working up to something
really big."</p>
<p>"I thought we might organise a secret society,"
said Hickey, ruminating, "something masonic, all
sworn to silence and secrecy and all that sort of
thing."</p>
<p>"No," said Doc, "just as few as possible and no
real confidants, Hickey; we'll take assistants as we
need them."</p>
<p>"What would you begin with?"</p>
<p>"We must strike a blow at Tabby," said Macnooder.
"We must show him that we don't propose
to stand for any of his underhanded methods."</p>
<p>"He needs a lesson," Hickey asserted savagely.</p>
<p>"How about the skeleton?"</p>
<p>"Humph!" said Hickey, considering; "perhaps,
but that's rather old."</p>
<p>"Not up the flag-pole—something new."</p>
<p>"What is it, Doc?"</p>
<p>Hickey looked at Macnooder with expectant admiration.</p>
<p>"I noticed something yesterday in Memorial,
during chapel, that gave me an idea," said Macnooder
profoundly. "There is a great big ventilator
in the ceiling; now there must be some way
of getting to that and letting a rope down." Macnooder
stopped and looked at Hickey. Hickey returned
a look full of admiration, then by a mutual
movement they clasped hands in ecstatic, sudden
delight.</p>
<p>That night they reconnoitred with the aid of a
dark-lantern, borrowed from Legs Brownell of the
Griswold, and the pass-keys, of which Hickey was
the hereditary possessor.</p>
<p>They found to their delight that there was in fact
a small opening through which one boy could wriggle
with difficulty.</p>
<p>The attempt was fixed for the following night,
and as a third boy was indispensable it was decided
that etiquette demanded that the owner of the lantern
should have the first call.</p>
<p>At two o'clock that night Hickey and Macnooder
stole down the creaking stairs, and out Sawtelle's
window (the highway to the outer world). The
night was misty, with a pleasant, ghostly chill that
heightened measurably the delight of the adventure.
In the shadow of the Griswold a third shivering
form cautiously developed into the possessor of the
dark-lantern.</p>
<p>After a whispered consultation, they proceeded
to Foundation House, where they secured the necessary
rope from the clothes-line, it being deemed
eminently fitting to secure the coöperation of the
best society.</p>
<p>Memorial Hall entered, they soon found themselves,
by the aid of the smelly lantern, in front
of the closet that held the skeleton which twice a
week served as demonstration to the class in anatomy,
and twice a year was dragged forth to decorate
the flag-pole or some such exalted and inaccessible
station. In a short time the door yielded
to the prying of the hatchet Macnooder had thoughtfully
brought along, and the white, chalky outlines
of the melancholy skeleton appeared.</p>
<p>The three stood gazing, awed. It was black and
still, and the hour of the night when dogs howl and
bats go hunting.</p>
<p>"Who's going to take him?" said Legs in a whisper.</p>
<p>"Take it yourself," said Macnooder, unhooking
the wriggling form. "Hickey's got to crawl
through the air hole, and I've got to work the
lantern. You're not superstitious, are you?"</p>
<p>"Sure, I'm not," retorted Legs, who received the
skeleton in his arms with a shiver that raised the
goose-flesh from his crown to his heels.</p>
<p>"Come on," said Hickey in a whisper; "softly
now."</p>
<p>"What's that?" exclaimed Legs, drawing in his
breath.</p>
<p>"That's nothing," said Macnooder loftily; "all
buildings creak at night."</p>
<p>"I swear I heard a step. There again. Listen."</p>
<p>"Legs is right," said Hickey in a whisper. "It's
outside."</p>
<p>"Rats! it's nothing but Jimmy," said Macnooder
with enforced calm. "Keep quiet until he passes
on."</p>
<p>They stood breathless until the sounds of the
watchman on his nightly rounds died away. Then
they started on tiptoes up the first flight for the
chapel, Macnooder leading with the lantern, Legs
next with the skeleton gingerly carried in his arms,
Hickey bringing up the rear with the coil of rope.</p>
<p>"Here we are," said Macnooder at length. "Legs,
you wait here,—see, that's where we're going to hoist
him." He flashed the bull's-eye upward to the perforated
circle directly above the rostrum, and added:
"I'll get Hickey started and then I'll be right back."</p>
<p>"Are you going to take the lantern?" said Legs,
whose courage began to fail him.</p>
<p>"Sure," said Hickey, indignantly. "Legs, you're
getting scared."</p>
<p>"No, I'm not," protested Legs, faintly, "but I
don't like to be left all alone with this thing in my
arms!"</p>
<p>"Say, do you want my job?" said Hickey, scornfully,
"crawling down thirty feet of air hole, with
bugs, and spiders and mice? Do you? 'Cause if
you do just say so."</p>
<p>"No-o-o," said Legs with a sigh, "no, I'll stay
here."</p>
<p>"You don't believe in ghosts and that sort of
thing, do you?" said Macnooder solicitously.</p>
<p>"Course, I don't!"</p>
<p>"All right then, 'cause if you do we won't leave
you."</p>
<p>"You chaps go on," said Legs bravely, "only
be quick about it."</p>
<p>"All right?"</p>
<p>"All right."</p>
<p>Hickey and Macnooder stole away; then suddenly
Hickey, returning, whispered:</p>
<p>"Say, Legs!"</p>
<p>"What?"</p>
<p>"If you catch your coat don't think it's the dead
man's hand grabbing you, will you?"</p>
<p>"Darn you, Hickey," said Legs, "if you don't
shut up I'll quit."</p>
<p>"Sh-h—good-bye, old man."</p>
<p>"Hurry up!"</p>
<p>In the crawling, howling darkness Legs waited,
holding the skeleton at arm's length, trembling like
a leaf, listening tensely for a sound, vowing that
if he ever got safely back into his bed he would
never break another law of the school. At the moment
when his courage was wavering, he heard the
muffled, slipping tread of Macnooder returning.
He drew a long comfortable breath, threw one leg
nonchalantly over the back of a near-by seat and
clasped the skeleton in an affectionate embrace.</p>
<p>"Hist—Legs."</p>
<p>The lantern flashed upon him. Legs yawned a
bored, tranquil yawn.</p>
<p>"Is that you, Doc?"</p>
<p>"Were you scared?"</p>
<p>"Of what?"</p>
<p>"Say, you've got nerve for a youngster," said
Macnooder admiringly. "Honestly, how did it
feel hugging old Bonesy, all alone there in the
dark?"</p>
<p>"You know, I rather liked it," said Legs with a
drawl. "I tried to imagine what it would be like to
see a ghost. Only, I could hardly keep awake.
Good Lord! what's that?"</p>
<p>The coil of rope descending had brushed against
his face and the start which he gave completely destroyed
the effect of his narrative. Macnooder,
seizing the rope, made it fast to the skeleton.
Then, producing a large pasteboard from under his
sweater, he attached it to a foot so that it would display
to the morrow's audience the inscription,
TABBY.</p>
<p>He gave two quick tugs, and the skeleton slowly
ascended, twisting and turning in unnatural, white
gyrations, throwing grotesque shadows against the
ceiling.</p>
<p>"Now, let's get up to see Hickey come out," said
Macnooder with a chuckle. "He's a sight."</p>
<p>Ten minutes later, as they waited expectantly,
listening at the opening of the narrow passage, a
sneeze resounded.</p>
<p>"What's that?" exclaimed Legs, whose nerves
were tense.</p>
<p>"That's Hickey," said Macnooder with a chuckle.
"He'll be along in a minute. He's scattering red
pepper after him so no one can crawl in to get the
skeleton down. Gee! he must have swallowed half
of it."</p>
<p>A succession of sneezes resounded, and then with a
scramble an unrecognisable form shot out of the
opening, covered with cobwebs and the accumulated
dust of years.</p>
<p>"For heaven's sake, Hickey, stop sneezing!" cried
Macnooder in tremor. "You'll get us pinched."</p>
<p>"I—I—can't help it," returned Hickey between
sneezes. "Great idea of yours—red pepper!"</p>
<p>"Just think of the fellow that goes in after you,"
said Macnooder, "and stop sneezing."</p>
<p>"It's in my eyes, down my throat, everywhere!"
said Hickey helplessly.</p>
<p>They got him out of the building and down by
the pond where he plunged his head gratefully into
the cooling waters. Then they slapped the dust
from him and rubbed the cobwebs out of his hair,
until he begged for mercy.</p>
<p>"Never mind, Hickey," said Macnooder helpfully,
"just think of Tabby when he comes in to-morrow."</p>
<p>Fortified by this delicious thought, Hickey submitted
to being cleaned. Then Macnooder examined
him carefully, saying:</p>
<p>"There mustn't be the slightest clue; if there is
a button missing you'll have to go back for it."
Suddenly he stopped. "Hickey, there's one gone—off
the left sleeve."</p>
<p>"I lost that scrapping with the Egghead last
week," explained Hickey, "and both of the left
suspender ones are gone, too."</p>
<p>"Honest?"</p>
<p>"I swear it."</p>
<p>"There's been many a murder tracked down,"
said Macnooder impressively, "on just a little
button."</p>
<p>"Gee! Doc," said Legs in chilled admiration,
"say, what a bully criminal you would make."</p>
<p>And on this spontaneous expression of young ambition,
the three separated.</p>
<p>The next morning, when the school filed in to
Memorial for chapel, they beheld with rapture the
uncanny figure suspended directly over the rostrum.
In an instant the name was whispered over the benches—"Tabby."
It was then a feat of the Dickinson
House. Every Dickinsonian was questioned excitedly
and professed the blankest ignorance, but
with such an insistent air, that twenty were instantly
credited with the deed. Then, with a common impulse,
the school turned to watch the entrance of
the faculty. Each master on entering started, repressed
an involuntary smile, looked to see the name
attached, frowned, gazed fiercely at the nearest boys
and took his seat.</p>
<p>Suddenly a thrill of excitement ran over the school
and like a huge sigh the exclamation welled up,
"Tabby!"</p>
<p>Mr. Lorenzo Blackstone Tapping had entered.
His eyes met the skeleton and he coloured. A smile
would have saved him, but the young Greek and
Latin expert understood nothing of the humanising
sciences. He tried to look unconcerned and failed;
he tried to look dignified and appeared sheepish; he
tried to appear calm and became red with anger.
It was a moment that carried joy into the heart
of Hickey, joy and the forgetfulness of red pepper,
cobwebs and dust.</p>
<p>Then the head master arrived and a frightened
calm fell over the awed assemblage. Did he see the
skeleton? There was not the slightest evidence of
recognition. He walked to his seat without a break
and began the services without once lifting his eyes.
The school was vexed, mystified and apprehensive.
But at the close of the services the head master
spoke, seeking the culprits among the four hundred,
and under that terrifying glance each innocent
boy looked guilty.</p>
<p>Such an outrage had never before occurred in the
history of the institution, he assured them. Not
only had a gross desecration been done to the sacredness
of the spot, but wanton and cowardly insult
had been perpetrated on one of the masters (Tapping
thought the specific allusion might have been
omitted). It was as cowardly as the miserable
wretch who writes an anonymous letter, as cowardly
as the drunken bully who shoots from the dark. He
repelled the thought that this was a manifestation
of the spirit of the school; it was rather the isolated
act of misguided unfortunates who should never have
entered the institution, who would leave it the day
of their detection. And he promised the school that
they would be detected, that he would neither rest
nor spare an effort to ferret out this cancer and
remove it.</p>
<p>Hickey drank in the terrific onslaught with delight.
He had struck the enemy, he had made it
wince and cry out. The first battle was his. He
rose with the school and shuffled up the aisle. Suddenly
at the exit, he beheld Mr. Tapping waiting.
Their glances met in a long hostile clash. There
was no mistaking the master's meaning; it was a
direct accusation that sought in Hickey's face to
surprise a telltale look.</p>
<p>A great lump rose in Hickey's throat; all the joy
of a moment ago passed, a profound melancholy enveloped
him; he felt alone, horribly alone, fighting
against the impossible.</p>
<p>"Why?" he said, bitterly, "why should he always
pick on me—the sneak!"</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>During the next few days a few minor skirmishes
ensued which showed only too clearly to Hickey, the
implacable persecution he must expect from Tabby.
The first day it was the question of breakfast.</p>
<p>At seven o'clock every morning the rising bell fills
the air with its clamour from the belfry of the old
gymnasium, but no one rises. There is half an
hour until the gong sounds for breakfast, a long
delicious half hour—the best half hour of the day
or night to prolong under the covers. After
twenty minutes a few effeminate members rise to
prink, five minutes later there is a general tumbling
out of the bed and a wild scamper into garments arranged
in ingenious time-saving combinations.</p>
<p>At exactly the half hour, with the first sounds of
the breakfast gong, Hickey would start from his
warm bed, plunge his head into the already filled
basin, wash with circumspection in eight seconds
(drying included), thrust his legs into an arrangement
of trousers, socks and unmentionables, pull a
jersey over his head, stick his feet into the waiting
pair of slippers, part and brush his hair, snap a
"dickey" about his neck, and run down the stairs
struggling into his coat, tying his tie and attending
to the buttons, the whole process varying between
twenty-one and one-eighth seconds and twenty-two
and three-quarters.</p>
<p>But on the morning after the exposing of the
skeleton Hickey had trouble with the dickey. The
school regulations tyrannically demanded that each
boy should appear at breakfast and chapel properly
dressed, <i>i. e.</i>, in collar and shirt. But as the appearance
is accepted for the fact, the "dickey" comes
to the rescue and permits not only despatch in
dressing, but by suppressing a luxury from the wash
list, to attend to the necessities of the stomach. The
dickey is formed by the junction of two flat cuffs,
held together by a stud, to which is attached a collar,
and later a tie. When the coat is added even
the most practised eye may be deceived by the inclosed
exhibition of linen.</p>
<p>On the aforesaid morning as Hickey hastily
donned his dickey the stud snapped and he was
forced to waste precious seconds in not only procuring
another stud, but in arranging the component
parts. He tore down the stairs to find the door
shut in his face,—Tabby's orders, of course!</p>
<p>The next night the same malignant enemy surprised
him at ten o'clock returning on tiptoe from
the Egghead's room,—marks and penal service on
Saturday afternoon. Hickey soon perceived that
he was to be subjected to a constant surveillance,
that the slightest absence from his room after dark
would expose him to detection and punishment.
Macnooder counselled seeming submission and a certain
interval of patient caution. Hickey indignantly
repelled the advice; the more the danger the greater
the glory.</p>
<p>On Friday morning a strange calm pervaded the
school, a lethargy universal and sweet. Seven o'clock,
half past seven, a quarter of eight, and not a stir.
Then suddenly in every house, exclamations of amazement
burst from the rooms, watches were scanned
incredulously and excited boys called from house to
house. Gradually the wonder dawned, welcomed by
cries of rejoicing—the clapper had been stolen!</p>
<p>In the Dickinson, Hickey and Macnooder were the
first in the halls, the loudest in their questions, the
most dumfounded at the occurrence. Breakfast,
forty minutes late, was eaten in a buzz of excitement,
interrupted by the arrival of a messenger from the
head master with peremptory orders to convene at
once in Memorial.</p>
<p>The Doctor was in no pleasant mood. The theft
of the clapper, coming so soon upon the incident of
the skeleton, had roused his fighting blood. His
discourse was terse, to the point, and uncompromising.
There could no longer be any doubt that individuals
were in rebellion against the peace and
discipline of the school. He would accept the defiance.
If it was to be war, war it should be. It
was for the majority to say how long they, the law-abiding,
the studious, the decent, would suffer from
the reckless outrages of a few without standards
or seriousness of purpose. The clapper would not
be replaced. All marks for tardiness and absence
from recitations would be doubled, and the moment
any total reached twenty, that boy would be immediately
suspended from the institution. The clapper
would not be replaced until the school itself
replaced it!</p>
<p>Hickey drank in the sweet discourse, revelling in
the buzz of conjecture that rose about him, concentrating
all his powers on appearing innocent
and unconcerned before the fusillade of admiring,
alluring glances that spontaneously sought him
out.</p>
<p>The school went to the recitation rooms joyfully,
discussing how best to draw from the ultimatum all
the amusement possible. By the afternoon every
boy was armed with an alarm clock, which he carried
into each recitation, placing it in the aisle at his
feet after a solicitous comparison of the time with
his neighbours. Five minutes before the close of the
hour the bombardment would begin, and as each
clock exploded the owner would grab it up frantically
and depart for the next recitation in a gallop.
Bright happy days, when even the monotony of the
classroom disappeared under the expectation of a
sudden alarm!</p>
<p>With a perfect simulation of seriousness, expeditions,
known as clapper parties, were organised to
search for the missing clapper. Orchards, gardens,
streams,—nothing was spared in the search. Complaints
began to pour in from neighbouring farmers
with threats of defending their property with shotguns.
The school gardener arrived in a panic to
implore protection for his lawns. Then the alarm
clocks became strangely unreliable. At every moment
the sound of the alarm, singly, or in bunches,
was heard in the halls of Memorial. Several of the
older members of the faculty, who were addicted to
insomnia and nervous indigestion, sent in their ultimatum.
Thus forced to a decision, the head master
compromised. He had the clapper replaced and
assessed the school for the costs.</p>
<p>During those glorious, turbulent days, Hickey
perceived with melancholy that Tabby still persisted
in suspecting him. It was disheartening, but there
was no blinking the fact. Tabby suspected him!</p>
<p>At the table Tabby's eyes restlessly returned
again and again in his direction. Tabby's ears
were strained to catch the slightest word he might
utter, in fact, everything in Tabby's bearing indicated
a malignant determination to see in him the
author of every escapade. This fresh injustice
roused Hickey's ire to such an extent that despite
the cautious Macnooder he determined upon a further
deed of bravado.</p>
<p>One morning Mr. Lorenzo Blackstone Tapping,
exactly as Hickey planned, perceived a curious watch
charm on Hickey's watch chain, which he soon made
out to be a miniature silver clapper. Immediately
suspicious, he noticed that every boy in the room
was in a state of excitement. On examining them
he discovered that every waistcoat was adorned with
the same suspect emblem. During the day a chance
remark overheard, revealed to him the fact that
Hickey was selling the souvenirs at a dollar apiece.
Assuredly here was an important clue. That afternoon
all his doubts were answered. He was seated
at his study window when his attention was attracted
by a group directly beneath. Against the wall
Hickey was standing, with a large box under his
arm, selling souvenirs as fast as he could make
change to the breathless crowd which augmented at
every moment.</p>
<p>Meanwhile, Hickey, fully aware of his enemy's
proximity, took special pains that the conversation
should carry. About him the excited crowd pressed
in a frantic endeavour to purchase before the store
was exhausted.</p>
<p>To all inquiries Hickey maintained a dark secrecy.</p>
<p>"I'm saying nothing, fellows, nothing at all," he
said with a canny smile; "it isn't wise sometimes to
do much talking. The impression has somehow got
around that these little 'suveneers' are made out of
the original clapper. I'm not responsible for that
impression, gents, and I make no remarks thereupon.
These little 'suveneers' I hold in my hand are silver-plated—<i>silver-plated</i>,
gents, and when a thing is
silver-plated there must be something inside. And
I further remark that these 'suveneers' will sell for
one dollar apiece only until five o'clock, that after
that time they will sell at one dollar and a half, and
I further remark that there are only forty-five left!"
Then rattling the box he continued with simulated
innocence, "Nothing but a 'suveneer,' gents, nothing
guaranteed. We sell nothing under false pretences!"</p>
<p>At half past four he had sold the last of a lot
of two hundred and fifty amid scenes of excitement
worthy of Wall Street.</p>
<p>At five o'clock, Hickey received a summons
to Foundation House. There to his delight he
found the head master in the company of Mr. Tapping.</p>
<p>Hickey entered with the candour of a cherub,
plainly quite at loss as to the object of the
summons.</p>
<p>"Hicks," said the head master in his solemnest
tones, "you are under very grave suspicion."</p>
<p>"Me, sir?" said Hickey in ungrammatical astonishment.</p>
<p>"Hicks, it has come to my knowledge that you
are selling as souvenirs bits of the clapper that was
stolen from the gymnasium."</p>
<p>"May I ask, sir," said Hickey with indignation,
"who has accused me?"</p>
<p>At this Mr. Tapping spoke up severely:</p>
<p>"I have informed the Doctor of facts which have
come into my possession."</p>
<p>"Sir," said Hickey, addressing the head master,
"Mr. Tapping has <i>honoured</i> me with his enmity for
a long while. He has not even hesitated to <i>threaten</i>
me. I am not surprised that he should accuse me,
only I insist that he state what evidence he has for
bringing this accusation."</p>
<p>"Doctor, allow me," said Mr. Tapping, somewhat
ill at ease. Then turning to Hickey he said, with
the air of a cross-examiner: "Hicks, are you or are
you not selling souvenirs at one dollar apiece, in
the shape of small silver clappers?"</p>
<p>"Certainly."</p>
<p>"Made out of the original clapper?"</p>
<p>"Certainly <i>not</i>!"</p>
<p>"What!" exclaimed the amazed Tapping.</p>
<p>"Certainly not."</p>
<p>"Do you mean to say that two hundred and fifty
boys would have bought those souvenirs at a dollar
apiece for any other reason than that they contained
a bit of the stolen clapper?"</p>
<p>Hickey smiled proudly.</p>
<p>"They may have been under that impression."</p>
<p>"Because you told them!"</p>
<p>"No, sir," said Hickey with righteous anger.
"You have no right, sir, to say such a thing. On
the contrary, I refused to answer one way or the
other. You listened this afternoon from your window
and you heard exactly my answer. If you will
do me the <i>justice</i>, sir, to tell the Doctor what I did
say, I shall be very much obliged to you."</p>
<p>"Enough, Hicks," said the head master with a
frown. "Answer me directly. Are these watch
charms made up out of the original clapper?"</p>
<p>"No, sir."</p>
<p>The Doctor, in his turn, looked amazed.</p>
<p>"Come, Hicks, that is not possible," he said. "I
warn you I shall trace them without any difficulty."</p>
<p>Then Hickey smiled, a long delicious smile of
culminating triumph. Slowly he drew forth from
his pocket an envelope, from which he produced
a legal document.</p>
<p>"If you will kindly read this, sir," he said, tending
it with deepest respect.</p>
<p>The Doctor took it, glanced curiously at Hickey,
and then began to read. Presently his face relaxed,
and despite a struggle a smile appeared. Then he
handed the document to Mr. Tapping, who read as
follows:</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<div class="block3">
<p>I, John J. Goodsell, representing the firm of
White, Brown and Bangs, jewellers of Trenton, New
Jersey, take oath that I have this day engaged to
manufacture for William Orville Hicks of the
Lawrenceville school 250 small clappers, design submitted,
of iron plated with silver, and that the iron
which forms the foundation comes from scrap-iron
entirely furnished by us.</p>
<p>Sworn to in the presence of notary.</p>
<p class="ii1">
<span class="smcap">John J. Goodsell.</span><br/>
</p>
</div>
<p>Attached to the document was a bill as follows:</p>
<div class="block3">
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">William Orville Hicks, Dr.,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">To White, Brown and Bangs.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">250 silver gilt clappers, at 11c apiece $27.50<br/></span>
<span class="i4">Received payment.<br/></span>
</div></div>
</div>
<h2> <a id="MAKING_FRIENDS">MAKING FRIENDS</a></h2>
<hr class="full"/>
<p>"That was just before I licked Whitey Brown," said
Lazelle, <i>alias</i> Gazelle, <i>alias</i> the Rocky Mountain Goat
and the Gutter Pup. "Cracky, that was a fight!"</p>
<p>"How many rounds?" asked Lovely Mead, disrobing
for the night.</p>
<p>"Eleven and a half. Knocked him to the count
in the middle of the twelfth with a left jab to the
bellows," said the Gutter Pup professionally. "He
weighed ten pounds more than me. Ever do any
fighting?"</p>
<p>"Sure," said the new arrival instantly.</p>
<p>"How many times?"</p>
<p>"Oh, I can't remember."</p>
<p>"You don't look it."</p>
<p>"Why not?"</p>
<p>"Your complexion's too lovely; and you're only a
shaver, you know."</p>
<p>"I'm fifteen, almost sixteen," said Lovely, bridling
up and surveying his new roommate with a calculating
glance. "How old are you?"</p>
<p>"I've been three years at Lawrenceville, freshman,"
said the Gutter Pup severely. "That's the
difference. What's your longest fight?"</p>
<p>"Twenty-one rounds," said Lovely, promptly.</p>
<p>"Oh," said the Gutter Pup in profound disappointment.
"He licked you?"</p>
<p>"No."</p>
<p>"You licked him?"</p>
<p>"No."</p>
<p>"What then?"</p>
<p>"They stopped us."</p>
<p>"Huh!"</p>
<p>"We had to let it go over to the next day."</p>
<p>"And then?"</p>
<p>"Then I put him out in the thirteenth."</p>
<p>"Yes, you did!"</p>
<p>"Yes, I did."</p>
<p>The two fiery-haired champions stood measuring
each other with their glances. Lovely Mead ran his
eye over the wiry arms and chest opposite him and
wondered. The Gutter Pup in veteran disdain was
about to remark that Lovely was a cheerful liar
when the tolling of the gym bell broke in on a dangerous
situation. The Gutter Pup dove into bed
and, reaching for a slipper, hurled it across the
room, striking the candle fair and square and plunging
the room into darkness.</p>
<p>"I learned that trick," he said, "the year I put
the Welsh Rarebit to sleep in six." He stopped
and ruminated over Lovely's story of his two-day
fight, and then spoke scornfully from the dark: "I
never fought anybody over eleven rounds. I never
<i>had</i> to."</p>
<p>Lovely heard and possessed his soul in patience.
He was on his second day at the school, his spirit not
a whit subdued, though considerably awed, by the
sacred dignities of the old boys. He liked the Gutter
Pup, with one reservation, and that was an instinctive
antagonism for which there was no logical
explanation. But at the first fistic reminiscence of
the Gutter Pup he had sought in his soul anxiously
and asked himself, "Can I lick him?" Each time
the question repeated itself he felt an overwhelming
impulse to throw down the gage and settle the awful
doubt then and there. It was pure instinct, nothing
more. The Gutter Pup was really a good sort and
had adopted him in quite a decent way without
taking an undue advantage. In fact, Lovely was
certain that in his roommate he had met the congenial
soul, the chum, the best friend among all
friends for whom he had waited and yearned. His
heart went out to the joyous, friendly Gazelle, but
his fingers contracted convulsively. Theirs was to
be an enduring friendship, a sacred, Three Musketeer
sort of friendship—after one small detail was
settled.</p>
<p>The next morning Lovely Mead bounded up with
the rising bell and started nervously to dress. There
was a lazy commotion in the opposite bed, and then,
after a few languid movements of the covers, the
Gutter Pup's reddish head appeared in surprise.</p>
<p>"Why, Lovely, what are you doing?</p>
<p>"Dressing. Didn't you hear the bell?"</p>
<p>"Jimminy crickets, what a waste, what an awful
waste of time," said the Gutter Pup, luxuriously,
stretching his arms and yawning. "Say, Lovely, I
like you. You're a good sort and that was a rattlin'
plucky tackle you made yesterday. Say, we're going
to get on famously together, only, Lovely, you
<i>are</i> green, you know."</p>
<p>"I suppose I am."</p>
<p>"You are. Of course, you can't help it, you
know. Every one starts that way. Lordy, Lovely,
you remind me of the first time I hit this old place,
three weeks after I fought Mucker Dennis, of the
Seventy-second Street gang."</p>
<p>Lovely Mead's gorge swelled up with indignation.
To hide his emotion, he plunged his head into the
basin and emerged dripping.</p>
<p>"I say, Lovely, I must give you some pointers,"
said the Gutter Pup affably. "Everything depends,
you know, on the start. You want to stand
in with the masters, you know. Study hard the
first week and get your lessons down fine, and work
up their weak points, and you'll slide through the
term with ease and pleasure."</p>
<p>"What are these weak points?" inquired Lovely
from the depths of a clean shirt.</p>
<p>"Oh, I mean the side they're most approachable.
Now the Roman, you know, when he makes a joke
you always want to laugh as though you were going
to die."</p>
<p>"Does he make many jokes?" asked Lovely.</p>
<p>"Cracky, yes. Then there's one very important
one he makes around Thanksgiving that every one
watches for. I'll put you on, but you must be very
careful."</p>
<p>"What? The same joke every year?" said
Lovely.</p>
<p>"Regular. It's about Volturcius in Cæsar—the
'c' is soft, you know, but you have to pronounce it—Vol-turk-ious."</p>
<p>"Why so?"</p>
<p>"So the Roman can say, 'No-o, no-o, not even
the near approach of Thanksgiving will justify
such a pronunciation.' See? That's the cue to
laugh until the tears wet the page. It's most
important."</p>
<p>"What about the Doctor?"</p>
<p>"Easy, dead easy; just ask questions, side-path
questions that'll lead him away from the lesson and
give him a chance to discourse. Say—another
thing, Lovely, don't go and buy anything in the village;
let me do that for you."</p>
<p>"Thanks."</p>
<p>"I'm on to their games, you know; I'm wise. Oh,
say, another pointer—about the jigger-shop. You
want to build up your credit with Al, you know."</p>
<p>"How d'you mean?"</p>
<p>"The best way is to get trusted right off while
you've got the chink and then pay up promptly at
the end of a week, and repeat the operation a couple
of times. Then Al thinks you're conscientious about
debts and that sort of thing, and when the hard-up
months come he'll let you go the limit."</p>
<p>"I say, Lazelle," said Lovely, admiringly, "you've
got it down pretty fine, haven't you? It's real
white of you to look after me this way."</p>
<p>"You're all right," said the Gutter Pup, still lolling
in bed. "All you want is to lay low for a
month or so and no one'll bother you. Besides, I'll
see to that."</p>
<p>"Thank you."</p>
<p>"You see, Lovely, I've taken a fancy to you: a
real, live, fat, young fancy. You remind me of
Bozy Walker that was fired for introducing geese
into the Muffin Head's bedroom; dear old Bozy, he
stood up to me for seven rounds."</p>
<p>Lovely Mead dropped the hairbrush in his agitation
and drew a long breath. How much longer
could his weak human nature hold out? Downstairs
the gong began to call them to breakfast. With
the first sound the Gutter Pup was in the middle of
the floor, out of his pajamas and into his clothes
before the gong had ceased to ring. He plunged
his head into the basin already filled with water,
dried himself, parted the moist hair with one sweeping
stroke of his comb, snapped a dickey about his
neck and struggled into his coat while Lovely was
still staring with amazement.</p>
<p>"That's the way it's done," said the Gutter Pup,
triumphantly. "There's only one fellow in the
school can beat me out, and that's that old Hickey,
over in the Dickinson; but I'll beat him yet. Are
you ready? Come on!"</p>
<p>The trouble was that the Gutter Pup was absolutely
unaware of the disturbance in Lovely's mind,
or that his reminiscences provoked such thoughts of
combat. He took Lovely to the village and fitted
him out, hectoring the tradesmen and smashing
prices with debonair impudence that Lovely sneakingly
envied. Certainly the Gutter Pup was unusually
cordial and did not in the least make him
feel the indignities of his position of newcomer, as
he had a right to do.</p>
<p>After supper they worked on the arrangement of
their room. The Gutter Pup grew ecstatic as
Lovely produced his treasures from the bottom of
the trunk.</p>
<p>"My aunt's cat's kittens!" he ejaculated as
Lovely produced a set of pennants in gaudy arrangement.
"Will we have the boss room, though!
Lovely, you are a treasure! This will make the
Waladoo Bird turn pale and weep for sorrow. Supposin'
we ruminate."</p>
<p>They ranged their accumulated possessions on the
floor, and sat back to consider.</p>
<p>"Well," said the Gutter Pup, "let's begin by putting
the cushions on the window-seat and the rugs
on the floor. Now the question is—what's to have
the place of honour?"</p>
<p>"What have you got?" asked Lovely, considering.</p>
<p>"I've got a signed photograph of John L. Sullivan,"
said the Gutter Pup, proudly producing it.
"It used to be cleaner, but Butsey White blew up
with a root-beer bottle and spattered it."</p>
<p>"Is it his own signature?" inquired Lovely, gazing
in awe.</p>
<p>"Sure. Dear old John L. He <i>was</i> a fighter.
Now, what have <i>you</i> got?"</p>
<p>"I've got a picture of an actress."</p>
<p>"Honest?"</p>
<p>"Sure."</p>
<p>"Who is it?"</p>
<p>"Maude Adams."</p>
<p>"You don't say so!"</p>
<p>"Fact."</p>
<p>"It isn't signed, Lovely—it can't be?"</p>
<p>"It is."</p>
<p>"Cracky! That <i>is</i> a prize. Maude Adams!
Think of it! What will the Waladoo Bird say?"</p>
<p>The Gutter Pup gazed reverently at the priceless
photograph and said in a breath:</p>
<p>"Maude Adams and John L.; think of it, Lovely!"
He paused and added in a burst of gratitude: "Say,
you can call me Gazelle or Razzle-dazzle now, if you
want; afterward we'll see about Gutter Pup."</p>
<p>Lovely was too overcome by this advance to voice
his feelings, but his heart went out to his new friend,
all irritation forgotten. After long discussion it was
decided that the two photographs, being of unique
and equal value, should be hung side by side on the
background of an American flag. The pennants
were strung as a border around the walls, but were
speedily hidden under an imposing procession of
light-weight and middle-weight champions, sporting
prints, posters and lithographic reproductions of
comic opera favourites, boxing gloves, fencing masks,
lacrosse sticks, Japanese swords, bird nests, stolen
signs, photographs of athletic teams, cotillon favours
and emblems of the school and the Woodhull. They
stopped and gazed in awe and admiration, and falling
gleefully into each other's arms, executed a dance
about the room. Then Lovely Mead, in an unthinking
moment, standing before the photograph of the
mighty John L., exclaimed: "Say, Gazelle, isn't he
a wonder, though! How long have you had it?"</p>
<p>"I got it," said the Gutter Pup, putting his head
on one side and reflecting, "right after I fought
Whitey Brown—just before my mill with Doggie
Shephard—a year and a half ago, I should say."</p>
<p>All the joy of the home-building left Lovely. He
sat down on the bed and pulled at his shoe-strings
so viciously that they broke off in his hand.</p>
<p>"What's the matter?" said the Gutter Pup in
surprise.</p>
<p>"Nothing."</p>
<p>"You look sort of put out."</p>
<p>"Oh, no."</p>
<p>"Whitey was a tough one," resumed the Gutter
Pup, lolling on the window-seat, "but Doggie was
no great shakes. Too fat and overgrown. He did
look big, but he had no footwork and his wind was
bad—very bad."</p>
<p>Lovely Mead listened with averted eyes.</p>
<p>If he had only been an old boy he would have
thrown down the gauntlet then and there; but he was
a freshman and must check the tugging within. Besides,
there must be some excuse. He could not
openly, out of clear sky, provoke an old boy who had
taken him under his protection and had done everything
to make him feel at home. Such an act would
be fresh, and would bring down on him the condemnation
of the whole school.</p>
<p>"Why the deuce should I care, after all?" he
asked himself gloomily that night. "What difference
does it make how many fellows he's licked. I
suppose it's because I'm a coward. That's it; it's
because I'm afraid that he would lick me that it
rankles so. Am I a coward, after all, I wonder?"</p>
<p>This internal questioning became an obsession. It
clouded his days and took the edges from the keen
joy of romping over the football field and earning
the good word of Tough McCarthy for his neat diving
tackles. Could the Gutter Pup lick him, after
all? He wondered, he debated, he doubted. He
began to brood over it until he became perfectly unapproachable,
and the Gutter Pup, without a suspicion
of the real cause, began to assure Hasbrouck
that Lovely was being overtrained.</p>
<p>Meanwhile, matters were approaching a crisis
with Lovely. Each morning he calculated the
strength of the Gutter Pup's chest and arms, and
wondered what was the staying power of his legs.
Sometimes he admitted to himself that he wouldn't
last three rounds. At others he figured out a whole
plan of campaign that must wear down the Gutter
Pup and send him to a crashing defeat. Waking,
he went through imaginary rounds, received without
wincing tremendous, imaginary blows, and sent in
sledge-hammer replies that inevitably landed the
champion prone on his back. At night his dreams
were a long conglomeration of tussling and battle
in the most unexpected places. He fought the Gutter
Pup at the top of the water-tower and saw him
vanish over the edge as the result of a smashing blow
on the point of the jaw; he fought him on the football
field and in the classroom, while the Roman held
the watch and the head master insisted on refereeing.</p>
<p>The worst of it was, he knew he was going to pieces
and moping in a way to render himself a nuisance to
all his associates; and yet he couldn't help it. Try
as he would to skip the mention of any subject that
could be tagged to a date, every now and then an
opening would come, and the Gutter Pup would begin:
"Let me see; that must have been just after
I fought——"</p>
<p>At last, one night, unable to bear the strain longer,
Lovely went to his room resolved to end it. He
bided his opportunity, gazing with unseeing eyes
at the pages of the divine Virgil. Finally he raised
his head and said, abruptly: "Say, Lazelle, what do
you think of our chances for the football championship?"</p>
<p>"Fair, only fair," said the Gutter, glad for any
excuse to stop studying. "The Davis and the Dickinson
look better to me."</p>
<p>"How long has it been since we won?" said
Lovely, scarcely breathing.</p>
<p>"Let me see," said the Gutter Pup, unsuspecting.
"We won the fall I fought Legs Brownell behind the
Davis house."</p>
<p>"Lazelle," said Lovely, rising desperately, "I can
lick you!"</p>
<p>"What?"</p>
<p>"I can lick you!"</p>
<p>"Hello," said the Gutter Pup, considering him in
amazement; "what does this mean?"</p>
<p>"It means I can lick you," repeated Lovely doggedly,
advancing and clenching his fists.</p>
<p>"You want a fight?"</p>
<p>"I do."</p>
<p>"Why, bully for you!"</p>
<p>The Gutter Pup considered, joyfully, with a
glance at the clock.</p>
<p>"It's too late now to pull it off. We'll let it go
until to-morrow night. Besides, you'll be in better
condition then, and you can watch your food, which
is important. I'll notify Hickey. You don't mind
fighting by lamplight?"</p>
<p>"Huh!"</p>
<p>"Of course, we'll fight under the auspices of the
Sporting Club, with a ring and sponges and that
sort of thing," said the Gutter Pup cheerfully.
"You'll like it. It's a secret organisation and it's a
great honour to belong. Hickey, at the Dickinson,
got it up. He's president, and referees. I'm the
official timekeeper, but that don't matter. They'll
arrange for seconds and all that sort of thing, and
Doc Macnooder is always there for medical assistance.
You're sure the lights won't bother you?"</p>
<p>"No."</p>
<p>"It's a queer effect, though. First time I fought
Snapper Bell——"</p>
<p>"Lazelle," said Lovely, choking with rage, "I
can lick you, right now—here—and I don't believe
you ever licked anyone in your life!"</p>
<p>"Look here, freshman," said the Gutter Pup, at
once on his dignity; "I've stood enough of your
impertinence. You'll do just as I say, and you'll
act like a gentleman and a sport and not like a member
of the Seventy-second Street gang. We'll fight
like sportsmen, to-morrow, at midnight, under the
auspices of the Sporting Club, in the baseball cage,
and until then I'll dispense with your conversation!
Do you hear me?"</p>
<p>Lovely Mead felt the justice of the reproof. Yes,
he <i>had</i> acted like a member of the Seventy-second
Street gang! He glanced up at the photograph
(slightly spotted) of John L., and he thought of
Ivanhoe and the Three Musketeers, and Sir Nigel
of the White Company, and presently he said, tentatively:</p>
<p>"I say——"</p>
<p>No answer.</p>
<p>"Lazelle——"</p>
<p>Still no answer.</p>
<p>"Say, I want to—to apologise. You're right
about the Seventy-second Street gang. I'm sorry."</p>
<p>"All right," said the Gutter Pup, not quite appeased.
"I'm glad you apologised."</p>
<p>"But we fight to-morrow—to the end—to the
limit!"</p>
<p>"You're on!"</p>
<p>They spoke no more that night, undressing in
silence, each covertly swelling his muscles and glancing
with stolen looks at his opponent's knotted torso.
By morning the Gutter Pup's serenity had returned.</p>
<p>"Well, how're you feeling? How did you sleep?"
he asked, poking his nose over the coverlets.</p>
<p>"Like a log," returned Lovely, lying gloriously.</p>
<p>"Good. Better take a nap in the afternoon,
though, if you're not used to midnight scrapping."</p>
<p>"Thanks."</p>
<p>"Mind the food—no hot biscuits, and that sort
of thing. A dish of popovers almost put me to the
bad the first time I met Bull Dunham. Fact, and he
didn't know enough to counter."</p>
<p>Lovely dressed and hurriedly left the room.</p>
<p>At two o'clock, to his amazement, Charley De
Soto, the great quarterback, in person, waited on
him in company with the gigantic Turkey Reiter,
tackle on the eleven, and informed him that they had
been appointed his seconds and anxiously inquired
after his welfare.</p>
<p>"I—oh, I'm doing pretty well, thank you, sir,"
said Lovely, overcome with embarrassment and pride.</p>
<p>"Say, Charley," said Turkey, after an approving
examination, "I kind of hanker to the looks of this
here bantam. He's got the proper colour hair and
the protruding jaw. Danged if I don't believe he'll
give the Gutter Pup the fight of his life."</p>
<p>"Can you lick him?" said De Soto, looking
Lovely tensely in the eyes.</p>
<p>"I'll do it or die," said Lovely, with a lump in
his throat.</p>
<p>"Good, but mind this, youngster: no funking. I
don't stand second to any quitter. If I'm behind
you, you've <i>got</i> to win."</p>
<p>Lovely thought at that moment that death on the
rack would be a delight if it only could win a nod
of approbation from Charley De Soto.</p>
<p>"How's your muscles?" asked Turkey. He ran
his fingers over him, slapped his chest and punched
his hips, saying:</p>
<p>"Hard as a rock, Charley."</p>
<p>"How's your wind?" said De Soto.</p>
<p>"Pretty well, thank you, sir," said Lovely, quite
overcome by the august presence.</p>
<p>"Now keep your mind off things. Don't let the
Gutter Pup bluff you. Slip over to the Upper, right
after lights, and I'll take charge of the rest. By
the way, Turk, who's in the corner with the Gutter
Pup?"</p>
<p>"Billy Condit and the Triumphant Egghead."</p>
<p>"Good. We'll just saunter over and lay a little
bet. So-long, youngster. No jiggers or éclairs.
See you later."</p>
<p>"So-long, old Sporting Life," added Turkey, with
a friendly tap on the shoulder. "Mind now, keep
cheerful."</p>
<p>Lovely's mood was not exactly cheerful. In fact
he felt as if the bottom had fallen out of things. He
tried his best to follow Charley De Soto's advice
and not think of the coming encounter, but, do what
he would, his mind slipped ahead to the crowded baseball
cage, the small, ill-lighted ring, and the Gutter
Pup.</p>
<p>"After all, will he lick me?" he said, almost
aloud. His heart sank, or rather it was a depression
in the pit of his stomach.</p>
<p>"Supposing he does?" he went on, pressing his
knuckles against his teeth. What a humiliation after
his boast! There would be only one thing to do—leave
school at once, and never, never return!</p>
<p>He had wandered down to the football field where
the candidates for the school eleven were passing and
falling on the ball under the shouted directions of
the veterans. The bulky figure of Turkey Reiter,
gigantic with its padded shoulders and voluminous
sweater, hove into view, and the tackle's rumbling
voice cried out:</p>
<p>"Hi there, old Sockarooster, this won't do! Keep
a-laughin'; keep cheerful; tumble down here and shag
for me."</p>
<p>Lovely Mead went gratefully to fetch the balls
that Turkey booted, far down the field, to the waiting
halfbacks.</p>
<p>"Feeling a bit serious, eh?" said Turkey.</p>
<p>"Well——"</p>
<p>"Sure you are. That's nothing. Don't let the
Gutter Pup see it, though. He's got to believe we
are holding you in, chaining you up, keepin' you
under the bars, 'cause you're barking to get at him.
Savvy? Chuck in a bluff, old sport, and—keep cheerful.
Better now?"</p>
<p>"Yes, thank you," said Lovely, who was in nowise
suffering from an excess of hilarity.</p>
<p>He did not see the Gutter Pup until supper, and
then had to undergo again his solicitous inquiries.
By a horrible effort he succeeded in telling a funny
story at the table, and laughed until his own voice
alarmed him. Then he relapsed into silence, smiling
furiously at every remark, and chewing endlessly on
food that had no flavour for him.</p>
<p>"Lovely," said the Gutter Pup upstairs, shaking
his head, "you don't look fit; you're getting nervous."</p>
<p>"Sure," said Lovely, remembering Turkey's injunction.
"I'm a high-strung, <i>vicious</i> temperament!"</p>
<p>"Your eye acts sort of loose," said the Gutter
Pup, unconvinced. "You're new to fighting before
a big assemblage. It's no wonder. I don't want
any <i>accidental</i> advantages. Say the word and we'll
put it over."</p>
<p>"No," said Lovely, quite upset by his friendly
offer. "I only hope, Lazelle, I can hold myself in.
I've got an awful temper; I'm afraid I'll kill a man
some day."</p>
<p>"No, Lovely," said Gutter Pup, shaking his head.
"You don't deceive me. You are ill—ill, I tell you,
and you might as well own up."</p>
<p>The truth was, Lovely was ill and rapidly getting
worse under the insouciance of the veteran of
the ring.</p>
<p>"Why, my aunt's cat's pants, Lovely," said the
Gutter Pup seriously. "That's nothing to be
ashamed of. Didn't I get it the same way the first
time I went up against Bloody Davis, of the
Murray Hill gang, on a bet I'd stick out three
rounds?"</p>
<p>Lovely Mead drew a sigh of relief. The red blood
seemed to rush back into his veins once more, and his
lungs to resume their appointed functions.</p>
<p>"September's a good month for these little
things," he said hopefully.</p>
<p>"October's better, more snap in the air," said the
Gutter Pup. "September's muggy. I remember
when I was matched against Slugger Kelly; it was
so hot I lost ten pounds, and the fight only went five
rounds, at that."</p>
<p>The old provocation had roused up the old antagonism
in Lovely. He hardly dared trust himself
longer in the room, so he bolted and slipped down to
the Waladoo's room and out into the campus.</p>
<p>"Gee," he said to himself, with a sigh of relief, "if
I could only get at him <i>now</i>!"</p>
<p>At taps he went cautiously to the Upper, by the
back way, and gained the room of Charley De Soto,
where he was told to turn in on the window-seat and
take it easy.</p>
<p>Presently Turkey Reiter and Macnooder arrived
to discuss the probabilities. Then Bojo Lowry, who
could play anything, sat down at the piano and performed
the most wonderful variations and medleys,
until Lovely forgot any future engagement in the
delight of gazing from his cushioned recess on real
Fourth Formers, enjoying the perquisites and liberties
of the Upper House.</p>
<p>Suddenly Macnooder glanced at his watch and announced
that it was almost midnight. Lovely sprang
up feverishly.</p>
<p>"Here, young Sporting Life," cried Turkey, "no
champing on the bit! Just a dash of calm and tranquillity."</p>
<p>"Easy, easy there," said De Soto, with a professional
glance.</p>
<p>"Ready here," said Macnooder, picking up a
brown satchel. "I'll bleed him if he faints."</p>
<p>They separated, and, on tiptoe, by various routes,
departed from the Upper, making wide circles in the
darkness before seeking the baseball cage, Lovely
Mead supported on either side by Charley De Soto
and Turkey.</p>
<p>They gave the countersign at the door, and were
admitted noiselessly into the utter blackness of the
baseball cage. Lovely waited in awe, unable to distinguish
anything, clutching at Turkey's arm.</p>
<p>"Is the Gutter Pup here yet?" said De Soto's
voice, in a whisper.</p>
<p>Another voice, equally guarded, replied: "Just
in."</p>
<p>From time to time the door opened on the starry
night and vague forms flitted in. Then other voices
spoke:</p>
<p>"What time is it?"</p>
<p>"Midnight, Hickey."</p>
<p>"Lock the door; no admittance now. Egghead,
show up with the light. Strike up, Morning
Glory!"</p>
<p>A bull's-eye flashed out from one corner, and then
two lanterns filled the gloom with their trembling
flicker.</p>
<p>Out of the mist suddenly sprang forty-odd members
of the Sporting Club, grouped about a vacant
square in the middle of the cage which had been roped
off. De Soto and Turkey pushed forward to their
appointed stations, where chairs had been placed for
the principals. Lovely seated himself and glanced
across the ropes. The Gutter Pup was already in his
corner, stripped to the waist, and being gently massaged
by the Triumphant Egghead and Billy Condit,
captain of the eleven.</p>
<p>In the middle of the ring, Hickey, in his quality of
president and referee, was giving his directions in
low, quick syllables. The assembled sporting gentlemen
pressed forward for the advantage of position;
the two front ranks assuming sitting or crouching
positions, over which the back rows craned. Lovely
gazed in awe at the select assembly. The élite of the
school was there. He saw Glendenning, Rock Bemis
and Tough McCarthy of his own house, scattered
among such celebrities as Crazy Opdyke, the Mugwump
Politician, Goat Phillips, who ate the necktie,
and the Duke of Bilgewater, Wash Simmons, Cap
Kiefer, Stonewall Jackson, Tug Moffat, Slugger
Jones, Ginger-Pop Rooker, Cheyenne Baxter, Red
Dog, Hungry Smeed, and Beauty Sawtelle, all silently
estimating the strength of the freshman who
had to go up against the veteran Gutter Pup.</p>
<p>Referee Hickey paid a quick visit to the contending
camps, and was assured that each antagonist was
restrained from flying at his opponent's throat only
by the combined efforts of his seconds.</p>
<p>"Gentlemen of the Sporting Club," said Hickey,
scraping one foot and shooting his collar, as referees
do, "Before proceeding with the evening's entertainment,
the management begs to remind you that the
labours incident to the opening of the school have
been unusually heavy—unusually so; and, as we particularly
desire that nothing shall be done to disturb
the slumbers of our overworked Faculty, we will ask
you to applaud only in the English fashion, by whispering
to your neighbour, 'Oh, very well struck, indeed,'
when you are moved to excitement. We gently
remind you that any one breaking forth into cheers
will be first slugged and then expelled.</p>
<p>"Gentlemen of the Sporting Club, I have the
honour to present to you the evening's contestants.
On the right, our well-known sporting authority, Mr.
Gutter Pup Lazelle, known professionally as the
Crouching Kangaroo. On the left, Mr. Lovely
Mead, the dark horse from Erie, Pennsylvania, who
has been specially fed on raw beef in preparation for
the encounter. Both boys are members of the Woodhull
branch of this club. The rounds will be of
three minutes each—one minute intermission. Mr.
Welsh Rabbit Simpson will act as timekeeper, and
will return the stop-watch <i>immediately</i> on conclusion
of the exercises. Both contestants have signified
their desire to abide strictly to the rules laid down by
the late Marquess of Queensberry, bless him! No
fouls will be tolerated, and only one blow may be
struck in the break-away.</p>
<p>"In the corner for the Gutter Pup, Mr. William
Condit, the tiddledy-winks champion, and the only
Triumphant Egghead in captivity.</p>
<p>"In the corner for Lovely, Mr. Turkey Reiter,
the Dickinson Mud Lark, and Mr. Charles De Soto,
the famous crochet expert. Doctor Macnooder, the
Trenton veterinary, is in attendance, but will <i>not</i> be
allowed to practice. The referee of the evening will
be that upright and popular sportsman, the Honourable
Hickey Hicks. Let the contestants step into
the ring."</p>
<p>Lovely was shoved to his feet and propelled forward
by a resounding slap on his shoulders from
Turkey Reiter. He had sat in a daze, awed by the
strange, imposing countenances of the school celebrities,
duly submitting to the invigorating massage
of his seconds, hearing nothing of the directions
showered on him. Now he was actually in the ring,
feeling the hard earth under his feet, looking into the
eyes of the Gutter Pup, who came up cheerfully extending
his hand. Surprised, Lovely took it, and
grinned a sheepish grin.</p>
<p>"Ready—go!" came the command.</p>
<p>Instantly the Gutter Pup sprang back, assuming
that low, protective attitude which had earned from
Hickey the epithet of the Crouching Kangaroo.
Lovely, very much embarrassed, extended his left
arm, holding his right in readiness while he moved
mechanically forward on the point of his toes. The
Gutter Pup, smiling at him, churned his arms and
shifted slightly to one side. Strangely enough,
Lovely felt all his resentment vanish. He no longer
had the slightest desire to hurl himself on his antagonist.
Indeed, it would at that moment have
seemed quite a natural act to extend his hand to
the joyful Gutter Pup and close the incident with a
laugh. But there he was, irrevocably destined to
fight before the assembled Sporting Club, under
penalty of everlasting disgrace. He made a tentative
jab and sprang lightly back from the Gutter
Pup's reply. Then he moved forward and backward,
feinting with his left and right, wishing all the
time that the Gutter Pup would rush in and strike
him, that he might attack with anger instead of this
weakening mental attitude to which he was at present
a prisoner. Twice the Gutter Pup's blows grazed
his head, and once landed lightly on his chest, without
his being at all moved from his calm. The call
of "Time" surprised him. He went to his seconds
frowning.</p>
<p>"What's wrong, young'n?" said De Soto.
"You're not in the game."</p>
<p>"No," said Lovely, shaking his head. "I—I've
got to get mad first."</p>
<p>"All right, that'll come. Keep cool and play to
tire him out," said De Soto, satisfied. "Make him
do the prancing around; don't you waste any
energy."</p>
<p>"Time!" whispered the Welsh Rabbit.</p>
<p>Again he was in the ring, experiencing once more
that same incomprehensible feeling of sympathy for
the Gutter Pup. The more he danced about, shaking
his head and feinting with quick, nervous jabs, the
more Lovely's heart warmed up to him. Wasn't he
a jolly, genial chap, though? Desperately Lovely
strove to remember some fault, a word or a look that
had once offended him. In vain; nothing came. He
liked the chap better than he had ever liked any one
before. He struck out as one strikes at his dearest
friend, and a low groan of disgust rose from the
Sporting Club.</p>
<p>"Ah, put some steam in it!"</p>
<p>"Do you think you're pickin' cherries?"</p>
<p>"That's it—be polite!"</p>
<p>"Sister, don't hurt little brother!"</p>
<p>The Welsh Rabbit spoke:</p>
<p>"Time!"</p>
<p>Not a real blow had yet been struck. Lovely went
to his corner perplexed.</p>
<p>"That's the boy," said De Soto, with a satisfied
shake of his head. "That's the game! Don't mind
what you hear. Play the long game. The Crouching
Kangaroo style is all very pretty, but it doesn't
save the wind."</p>
<p>"Never mind the ballet steps, Sport," added Turkey,
vigorously applying the towel. "Hold in, but
when you do start, rip the in'ards out of things."</p>
<p>"They think I'm doing it on purpose," said Lovely
to himself.</p>
<p>"Time!" called the Welsh Rabbit.</p>
<p>The Gutter Pup, changing his tactics, as though
he had sufficiently reconnoitred, began to attack
with rapid, pestiferous blows that annoyed Lovely
as a swarm of gnats annoys a dog. He shook his
head angrily and sought an opportunity to strike,
but the fusillade continued, light but disconcerting.
When he struck, the Gutter Pup slipped away or
ducked and returned smiling and professional to attack.
Lovely began to be irritated by the Gutter
Pup's complacency. He wasn't serious enough,—his
levity was insulting. Also, he was furious because
the Gutter Pup would not strike him a blow
that hurt. His jaw set and he started to rush.</p>
<p>"Time!" said the Welsh Rabbit.</p>
<p>Lovely went to his corner unconvinced.</p>
<p>"Are the rounds three minutes?" he asked.</p>
<p>"Sure," said Turkey. "Don't worry; they'll get
longer."</p>
<p>Lovely looked across at the opposite camp. The
adherents of the Gutter Pup were patting him on the
back, exulting over his work.</p>
<p>"What's he done?" said Lovely, angrily, to himself;
"that sort of work wouldn't hurt a fly."</p>
<p>"Time!" said the Welsh Rabbit.</p>
<p>Lovely walked slowly to meet the Gutter Pup,
bursting with irritation. He waited, and as the Gutter
Pup attacked he plunged forward, taking a
blow in the face, and drove his fist joyfully into the
chest before him. The Gutter Pup went back like
a tenpin, staggered, and kept his footing. When he
came up there was no longer a smile in his eyes.</p>
<p>They threw boxing to the winds. It was give and
take, fast and furious, back and forth against the
ropes, and rolling over and over on the ground.</p>
<p>"Time!" announced the Welsh Rabbit, and
Hickey had to pry them apart.</p>
<p>Lovely thought the intermission would never end.
He sat stolidly, paying no heed to his seconds' prayers
to go slow, to rest up this next round, to make
the Gutter Pup work. He would fight his fight his
own way, without assistance.</p>
<p>"Time!" said the Welsh Rabbit.</p>
<p>Lovely started from his corner for the thing that
came to meet him without yielding, exchanging blows
without attempt at blocking, rushing into clinches,
locking against the heaving chest, looking into the
strange, wild eyes, pausing for neither breath nor
rest.</p>
<p>Once he was rushed across the ring, fighting back
like a tiger, and jammed over the ropes into the ranks
of the spectators. Then he caught the Gutter Pup
off his balance, and drove him the same way, his arms
working like pistons. The rounds continued and
ended with nothing to choose between them.</p>
<p>Lovely felt neither the blows received nor the
rough rubbing-down of his seconds. He heard nothing
but the sharp cries of "Time!" and sometimes
he didn't hear that; but a rough hand would seize
him (was it Hickey's?) and tear him away from the
body against him.</p>
<p>He went down several times, wondering what had
caused it, quits for standing moments triumphantly,
while the fallen Gutter Pup raised himself from the
ground.</p>
<p>Then he lost track of the rounds; and the rows of
sweaters and funny white faces about the ring seemed
to swell and multiply into crowds that stretched far
back and up. The lights seemed to be going out—getting
terribly dim and unsteady.</p>
<p>Once in his corner he thought he heard some one
say: "Fifteenth round"—fifteen, and he could remember
only six. In fact, he had forgotten whom
he was fighting or what it was about, only that some
one on whose knee he was resting was shrieking in his
ear:</p>
<p>"He's all out, Lovely. You've got him. Just
one good soak—just one <i>lovely</i> one!"</p>
<p>That was a joke, he supposed—a poor joke—but
he would see to that "one soak" the next round.</p>
<p>"Time!" cried the Welsh Rabbit.</p>
<p>For the sixteenth time the seconds raised their
champions, steadied them, and sent them forth. One
good blow would send either toppling over to the
final count. So they craned forward in wild excitement,
exhorting them in hoarse whispers.</p>
<p>The two contestants gyrated up and stood blankly
regarding each other. About them rose a murmur
of voices:</p>
<p>"Sail in!"</p>
<p>"Soak him, Lovely!"</p>
<p>"Clean him up, Gutter Pup!"</p>
<p>"One to the jaw!"</p>
<p>"Now's your time!"</p>
<p>With a simultaneous movement each raised his
right and shot it lumberingly forward, past the hazy,
confronting head, fruitlessly into the air. Renewed
whispers, dangerously loud, arose:</p>
<p>"Now's your chance, Gutter Pup!"</p>
<p>"Draw off and smash him!"</p>
<p>"He's all yours, Lovely!"</p>
<p>"Oh, Lovely, hit him! hit him!"</p>
<p>"Just once!"</p>
<p>They neither heard nor cared. Their arms locked
lovingly about their shoulders, and they began to
settle. New cries:</p>
<p>"Break away!"</p>
<p>"Don't let him pull you down!"</p>
<p>"Keep your feet, Lovely!"</p>
<p>"They're both going!"</p>
<p>With a gradual, deliberate motion, Lovely and the
Gutter Pup sat down, still affectionately embraced;
then, wavering a moment, careened over and lay
blissfully unconscious. Amazement and perplexity
burst forth.</p>
<p>"Why, they're done for!"</p>
<p>"They're out—they're both out!"</p>
<p>"Sure enough."</p>
<p>"What happens?"</p>
<p>"Who wins?"</p>
<p>"Well, did you ever——"</p>
<p>Suddenly Hickey, standing forward, began to
count:</p>
<p>"One, two, three——"</p>
<p>"What's he doing that for?"</p>
<p>"Aren't they both down?"</p>
<p>"Four, five, six, seven——"</p>
<p>"But Lovely went first!"</p>
<p>"No, the Gutter Pup."</p>
<p>"Eight, nine, <i>TEN</i>!" cried Hickey. "I declare
both men down and out. The Sporting Club will
register one knockout to the credit of the Gutter
Pup and one to Lovely Mead. All bets off. The
Welsh Rabbit will proceed to return that watch!!"</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>At seven o'clock the next morning Lovely, from
his delicious bed, gazed across at the swollen head of
the Gutter Pup. At the same instant the Gutter
Pup, opening his eyes, perceived the altered map of
Lovely's features.</p>
<p>"Lovely," he said brokenly, "you're the finest
ever. You're a man after my own heart!"</p>
<p>"Razzle-dazzle," replied Lovely, choking, "you're
the finest sport and gentleman in the land. I love
you better than a brother."</p>
<p>"Lovely, that was the greatest fight that has ever
been fought," said the Gutter Pup. "You are the
daisy scrapper!"</p>
<p>"Razzle-dazzle——"</p>
<p>"Call me Gutter Pup."</p>
<p>"Gutter Pup, you've got the nerve market cornered."</p>
<p>"Lovely, I haven't felt so happy since the day I
stood up five rounds——"</p>
<p>Suddenly the Gutter Pup stopped and added apologetically:
"Say, Lovely, honest, does my au-to-biography
annoy you?"</p>
<p>And Lovely replied happily:</p>
<p>"No, Gutter Pup, honest—not now."</p>
<h2> <a id="THE_HERO_OF_AN_HOUR">THE HERO OF AN HOUR</a></h2>
<hr class="full"/>
<p>George Barker Smith was one of the four-hundred-odd
boys whose names figure in the school catalogue
at the commencement of each year. He had
passed from the shell into the first form, from the
first form into the second, where he had remained
an extra year, during the elongating, dormant period
of his growth, and another year, during the dormant,
elongating one. Then in the seventh year of his career
he finally achieved the fourth form and entered
the Upper House.</p>
<p>During this generous stay he had done nothing
to distinguish himself from his neighbour. He had
never accomplished anything heroic, attempted anything
daring, or done anything ridiculous. After
seven years his record was so blank that even the
fertile imaginations of Hickey and Macnooder could
find nothing on which to hang a nickname. Besides,
it is doubtful if they ever stopped to think of George
Barker Smith. He filled in, he was the average—a
part of the great background of school life, which
made up the second teams in athletic contests and
substituted occasionally on the banjo and mandolin
clubs, after borrowing a dress suit across the hall.</p>
<p>He ran in debt at the jigger-shop, like everyone
else, or he might have been called Miser. He flunked
in Greek and mathematics sufficiently to escape the
epithet of Poler. He had occasionally been read
out at roll-call for absence from bath, thus invalidating
the right to Soapsuds or Wash.</p>
<p>Sometimes, when his neighbours dropped in on
him in quest of stamps or a collar or a jersey, they
called him affectionately Smithy, old Sockarooster.
But he was not deceived, and loaned from his wardrobe
with a full comprehension of the value of endearing
terms. Smithy! After seven years he was
just Smithy—his whole story was there.</p>
<p>And in the secret places of his heart, which no
boy reveals, George Barker Smith grieved. Covertly
he felt his obscureness and rebelled. After seven
years' afflictions he would pass from Lawrenceville
and be forgotten. And all for the lack of a nickname!
If Nature had only formed him so that he
might have aspired to the appellation of the Triumphant
Egghead. The Triumphant Egghead—that
was a name to be proud of! Who could ever
forget that? There was fame secure and imperishable;
neither years nor distance could dim the memory!</p>
<p>No, Nature had not been considerate of him. His
nose was just a nose, not a Beekstein; his ears were
ordinary ears, not Flop Ears; his teeth were regular
and all present. No one would ever call him Walrus
or Tuskarora Smith, which sounds so well. He was
not tall enough to be called Ladders or Beanpole;
he was not small enough for Runt, Tiny, Wee-wee,
or The Man. He was just average size, average
weight, which barred a whole category, such as
Skinny, Puff-Ball, Shanks, Slab-Sides, Jumbo, Flea,
Bigboy and Razors.</p>
<p>To pass into the world and be forgotten! To fade
from the memory of his classmates or to linger
indistinctly as one of the Smiths between Charles D.
and George R.! And all for the lack of a nickname!
George Barker Smith, brooding thereon, envied the
Gutter Pup, who likewise rejoiced in the appellation
of Razzle-dazzle and the Rocky Mountains Gazelle;
he envied the Waladoo Bird, the Coffee-Cooler, the
Morning Glory; he envied Two-Inches Brown, whose
indiscreet remark that he needed but that to make the
'varsity nine had at least enrolled his name on the
list of celebrities; but most of all he envied the Triumphant
Egghead. With that glorious title as
model, he sought in himself for something which
might reclaim him—and found nothing. From
Barker Smith might be made Doggie or Bow-wow
Smith, but even that lacked naturalness and application.
No, there was no turning his destiny; Smithy
it was decreed and Smithy it would remain.</p>
<p>It was not fame Smith sought. His spirit was
not of the sort that drags angels down. Naturally
there had been periods in his youth when he had
dreamed of reaching the Homeric proportions of
Turkey Reiter or Slugger Jones; of scurrying over
the gridiron, darting through a maze of frantic
tacklers like Flash Condit, who had scored against
the Princeton 'varsity in that glorious eight to four
game; of knocking out dramatic home runs like Cap
Kiefer, that bring joy out of sorrow and end in
towering bonfires. These are glories which all may
dream of but few attain.</p>
<p>Neither did he ask for the gifts of a Hungry
Smeed, for to possess the ability to eat forty-nine
pancakes at a sitting was a talent that is not lightly
bestowed. No, he did not ask for fame; all he
asked was to be remembered; for some incident or
accident to come which would mark him with a glorious,
fantastic nickname that would live with the
Triumphant Egghead and the Duke of Bilgewater.
And Fate, which sometimes listens to prayers, was
kind and brought him not only a nickname but
fame—real enduring fame. For in the most extraordinary
way it came to pass that George Barker
Smith unwittingly accomplished a feat which no boy
had ever dared before and which it is extremely
unlikely will ever be duplicated in the future. And
this is the manner in which greatness was thrust
upon him.</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>In the last days of the month of September the
school returned from the fatiguing period of vacation
to seek recuperation and needed sleep in the
classrooms. George Barker Smith found himself at
last a full-fledged fourth former, one of the lords
of the school, member of a free governing body,
with license to burn the midnight lamp unchallenged,
to stray into the village at all hours, to visit the jigger-shop
during school and remain tranquilly seated
when a master bore down from the horizon, instead
of joining the palpitating under-formers that just
at his back crouched, glasses in hand, behind the
counter. No longer did he have to stand in file once
a week before the Bursar to claim a beggarly half-dollar
allowance. Instead, once a mouth he strolled
in at his pleasure and nonchalantly tendered checks
for fifty dollars, with which allowance his parents,
for one blissful year only, fondly expected him to
purchase all the clothes necessary—per agreement.</p>
<p>He could hire a buggy at ruinous rates and disappear
in search of distant cider-mills or visit friends
in Princeton, who had gone before. Finally, his
room was his castle, where no imperious tapping of
a lurking undermaster would come to disturb a little
party at the national game, for chips only, of course.</p>
<p>George Barker Smith's room was on the third
floor back and had attached to it certain communal
rights. Even as the possession of the ground-floor
rooms in the under-form houses entailed the obligation
to assist at all hours of the night the passage
to the outer world, and to assure the safe return
therefrom, so room 67 was the recognised highway
to the roof of the Upper, when the thermometer
had mounted above seventy-eight degrees Fahrenheit.</p>
<p>Those who sought the cooling heights sought security
and (be it confessed, now that an inconsiderate
Faculty's sanction has made smoking no longer
a pleasure but a choice) the companionship of the
Demon Cigarette or the "Coffin Nail," as it was more
affectionately known. The guardianship of this
highway, if it entailed responsibilities, also brought
with it certain perquisites and tariffs in the shape of
an invitation without expense.</p>
<p>Now, George Barker Smith did not like the odour
of tobacco in the least, and he particularly disliked
the effects produced by the cheap cigarette which
the price rendered popular. But once a fourth
former there were so few rules to break that this opportunity
had to be embraced as an imperative duty,
and so he resigned himself, pretending (like how
many others!) to inhale and enjoy it.</p>
<p>The last weeks of September were unusually hot
and distressing. The stiff collar disappeared. Two-piece
suits became the fashion for full dress and
fatigue uniform consisted of considerably less. The
day was passed in long, grumbling siestas under the
shade of apple trees or in a complete surrender to
the cooling contact of peach and strawberry jiggers.
Even games lost their attraction, and the only sign
of life was the pleasant spectacle of the heavy squad
on the football team, puffing protestingly about the
circle under the cruel necessity of reducing weight.</p>
<p>After dark, bands were organised which stole
away, through negro villages, arousing frantic dogs,
to the banks of the not-too-fragrant canal, where
they spent a long, blissful hour frolicking in the
moonlit water or raising their voices in close harmony
on the bank. Other spirits, not so adventurous,
contented themselves with lining up behind the
Upper in white, shivering line, where the hose brought
comfort as it played over grateful backs.</p>
<p>Naturally, at night, smoking up the flue, even with
the whispered conversations with the boy below and
the boy across, lost all charm. The roof became a
veritable rookery. Mattresses were carried up and
hot, suffocating boys lolled through the raging night
swapping yarns and gazing at the inscrutable stars.</p>
<p>On a certain evening, hot among the hottest,
George Barker Smith, in that costume which obtained
before the publication of the first fashions,
was sitting at his desk in a conscientious endeavour
to translate one paragraph of Cicero, which he held
in his right hand, for every chapter of the Count
of Monte Cristo, which he held in his left.</p>
<p>At his door suddenly appeared the Triumphant
Egghead and Goat Phillips, whose title at this time
had been conveyed solely for the butting manner
of his attack. Each had likewise reached that stage
of dishabille where there is little more to shed.</p>
<p>"Hello, old Sockbutts," said Egghead, genially.</p>
<p>"Hello yourself," returned Smith, non-committally.</p>
<p>"We're going up on the roof," continued the
Egghead. "Anyone up yet?"</p>
<p>"Not yet."</p>
<p>"It's as hot as blazes," said the Goat. "Better
come along."</p>
<p>"I ought to finish this Cicero," said Smith, wondering
if he could leave his hero in a sack, ready to
be plunged into the dizzy waters below.</p>
<p>"Oh, come on," said the Egghead; "I'll give you
that when we come down. Have you any matches?
I've got the coffin nails."</p>
<p>A slight shower had ended a few minutes before
without bringing relief from the heat.</p>
<p>"Are you coming?" said the Egghead, already
out of the window. "Don't be a grind, Smithy."</p>
<p>"Sure, I'm with you," replied Smith, thus forced
to repel the insinuation.</p>
<p>The Goat had gone first, then the Egghead, with
Smith bringing up the rear.</p>
<p>"Look out, fellows," whispered the pilot, lost in
the darkness ahead. "It's slippery as the deuce!"</p>
<p>The way led up a gutter to the peak of one slope,
down that, up another and over to a cranny which
formed about the back chimneys. The still moist
tiles were, in fact, slippery and treacherous, and
their movements were made with calculation and solicitude.</p>
<p>Smith, arriving the last at the top of the first peak,
waited until the Egghead had descended and climbed
in safety to the next ridge, glanced down the twenty
feet of slippery slate, and, tempted, called out:</p>
<p>"Look out, fellows, I'm going to slide!"</p>
<p>The Goat and the Egghead, in unison, cried to
him to desist, for the second ridge which ended the
slope of the first had a downward inclination towards
the edge of the roof that made it exceedingly
dangerous.</p>
<p>Just how it happened has never been satisfactorily
settled: whether Smith actually intended to slide or
whether he lost his grip and started unwillingly.
However it may be, Egghead and the Goat, astride
the second ridge, were suddenly horrified to see
Smith's naked body shoot down the slope, strike the
moist incline at the bottom, and, bounding down
that, with increased velocity disappear over the roof.
They heard one thud and then another in the gravel
path, three stories below.</p>
<p>The two clung to each other with a dreadful sinking
feeling.</p>
<p>"He's dead," said the Goat, solemnly. "Poor
old Smith is dead."</p>
<p>"Squashed like a bug," said the Egghead. "We
won't even recognise his remains."</p>
<p>"Egghead, it's all our fault—all our fault."</p>
<p>"Shut up, Goat, and don't blubber."</p>
<p>"I'm not."</p>
<p>"You are—for Heaven's sake, brace up! We've
got to get down to him!"</p>
<p>They started fearfully over the treacherous return,
reaching Smith's room thoroughly unnerved.
Then they began to run down the stairs, calling
out:</p>
<p>"Smithy's dead!"</p>
<p>"Smithy's fallen off the roof!"</p>
<p>On their trail came a motley assortment of excited
boys, rushing out of every room. Without a single
hope they tore around to the back of the Upper,
and, there, sitting bolt upright in the position in
which he had fallen, they found George Barker
Smith. They stopped astounded.</p>
<p>"Smith, is that you!" Egghead said, in a hoarse,
incredulous whisper, and the answer returned faintly:</p>
<p>"It's me, Egghead."</p>
<p>"Are you dying?"</p>
<p>"I don't know."</p>
<p>"Are your bones all broken?"</p>
<p>"I don't know—I'm full of gravel!"</p>
<p>The boys gazed astounded up at the dark outline
three stories above them. Half-way, the slanting
roof of the porch had broken the fall and saved him
from certain death. They gazed in silence, and then
the chorus arose:</p>
<p>"Holy cats!"</p>
<p>"Great snakes!"</p>
<p>"Marvellous!"</p>
<p>"Can you beat that!"</p>
<p>"Mamma!"</p>
<p>"Simply marvellous!"</p>
<p>Smith, still in a comatose condition, caught the
sounds of astonishment, and suddenly comprehended,
first, that he had done something without parallel
in school history, and, second, that he was alive.</p>
<p>"You fellows, get me upstairs," he said, gruffly,
"and send for Doctor Charlie. I want to get this
gravel out of me."</p>
<p>Macnooder and Turkey reverently carried him to
his room, while Shy Thomas, who was clothed in a
dressing-gown, went streaming across the campus
for the doctor.</p>
<p>A quick examination revealed the amazing fact
that not a bone had been fractured.</p>
<p>"You've got a few bruises, and that's all, by
George!" said the doctor, looking at him in open-eyed
wonder.</p>
<p>"It's the gravel that bothers me," said Smith,
twisting on his side.</p>
<p>"You did sit down rather hard," remarked the
doctor, with a twitch of his lips. In half an hour
he had removed thirty-seven pieces of gravel, large
and small, and departed, after ordering rest and a
few days' sojourn in bed.</p>
<p>Hardly had the doctor departed when Hickey arrived,
full of importance and enthusiasm. For a moment
he stood at the foot of the bed surveying the
bruised hero with the affectionate and fatherly joy
of a Barnum suddenly discovering a new freak.</p>
<p>"My boy," he said, happily, "you're a wonder.
You're great. You're it. There's been nothing like
it ever happened. Smithy, my boy, you're a genius.
You're the wonder of the age!"</p>
<p>"I suppose everyone's excited?" said Smith,
faintly realising that Fate had touched him in her
flight and made him famous.</p>
<p>"Excited? Why, they're howling with curiosity,"
responded Hickey, who, having cautiously turned
the key in the door, returned and continued with
importance:</p>
<p>"Say, but I suppose you don't realise what we
can make of this, do you?"</p>
<p>"What do you mean?" said Smith.</p>
<p>"First, where are those thirty-seven pieces of
gravel?"</p>
<p>"I threw them away."</p>
<p>"My boy, my boy!" said Hickey, sitting down
and burying his head in his arms. "Pearls before
swine."</p>
<p>"But they're over there in the basket."</p>
<p>Hickey, with a cry of joy, flung himself on them,
counted them and thrust them into his pocket.</p>
<p>"Smith," he said, condescendingly, "you've got
certain qualities, I'll admit, but what you need is a
manager!"</p>
<p>"Why, what are you thinking of?" said Smith,
who began to have a suspicion of Hickey's plan.</p>
<p>"I suppose you would expose your honourable
scars," said Hickey, disdainfully, "to any one who
asks to see them?"</p>
<p>"Why not?"</p>
<p>"Just out of friendliness?"</p>
<p>"Yes."</p>
<p>"Smith, you <i>are</i> a nincompoop! Why, my boy,
there's money in it—big money. Never thought of
that, eh?"</p>
<p>"How so?"</p>
<p>"Exhibitions—paid exhibitions, my boy! We'll
organise the greatest side-show ever known."</p>
<p>Smith blushed at the thought.</p>
<p>"Won't it be rather undignified?" he said doubtfully.</p>
<p>"Dignity, rats!" said Hickey. "Talk to me of
dignity when you hear the gold rattling in your
pocket, when you lodge in a marble palace and drive
fast horses up Fifth Avenue. My boy, you don't
known what you're worth. I'll have Macnooder paper
the campus to-morrow. I'll get up scareheads
that'll bring every mother's son of them scampering
here to see you."</p>
<p>"What do I get out of it?" said Smith cautiously.</p>
<p>"Half!"</p>
<p>"You low-down robber!"</p>
<p>"Who had the idea? Would you ever have made
a cent if it hadn't been for me? Do you suppose
any attraction ever makes as much as his manager?
My boy, I'm generous! I oughtn't to do it! Come
now—is it a go?"</p>
<p>"Well—yes!"</p>
<p>"Wait—till you see the posters," said Hickey,
squeezing his hand joyfully, "and mind, no private
exhibitions. Promise?"</p>
<p>"I promise."</p>
<p>"Under oath?"</p>
<p>"So help me."</p>
<p>"Ta, ta."</p>
<p>Left at last alone, George Barker Smith could
hardly seize the full measure of his future. Hickey
was right, it was the biggest thing that had ever happened.
In one short hour everything had changed.
Now he was of the elect—a part of history, a tale to
be told over whenever one old graduate would meet
another. Even Hungry Smeed's great pancake record
would have to be placed second to this. Other
more distinguished appetites might come who would
achieve fifty pancakes, but no boy would ever go
the path he had gone. He was famous at last. At
Prom and Commencement he would be pointed out
to visitors in the company of Hickey, Flash Condit,
Cap Kiefer and Turkey Reiter. Only yesterday he
was plain George Barker Smith, to-morrow he might
be....</p>
<p>What would the morrow bring? Who would name
him? Would it be Hickey, Macnooder or Turkey or
the Egghead, or would some unsuspected classmate
find the happy expression? He hoped that it would be
something picturesque, but a little more dignified
than the Triumphant Egghead. He tried to imagine
what the nickname would be. Of course, there
were certain obvious appellations that immediately
suggested themselves, such as Roofie, Jumper, or,
better still, Plunger Smith. There was also Tattoo
and Rubber and Sliding, but somehow none of these
seemed to measure up to the achievement, and in this
delightful perplexity Smith fell asleep.</p>
<p class="center">
OLD IRONSIDES<br/>
<br/>
<span class="font09">THE GREATEST SIDE-SHOW ON EARTH ON EXHIBITION<br/>
AT ROOM 67 UPPER</span><br/>
<br/>
MANAGEMENT—<span class="font09">Hicks &amp; Macnooder.</span>
</p>
<div class="block4">
<p><span class="font09">Come one, Come all! Come and View the</span> HUMAN METEOR,<br/>
THE YOUNG RUBBER PLANT, THE FAMOUS<br/>
PLUNGING ROCKET, THE WORLD-RENOWNED<br/>
SMITH, THE BOY GRAVEL YARD!</p>
<p><span class="font09">Come and see the honourable scars! No private exhibition.<br/>
This afternoon only! Old Ironsides is under contract not to<br/>
bathe in the canal this fall. This is your one and only opportunity<br/>
to see the results of Old Ironsides' encounter with the<br/>
gravel path!</span></p>
<p><span class="font09">Come and see the 37 original guaranteed and authentic bits<br/>
of gravel which dented but could not penetrate!</span></p>
</div>
<p class="center">
ADMISSION, 5 CENTS    FRESHMEN, 10 CENTS<br/>
$500 REWARD $500
</p>
<div class="block4">
<p><span class="font09">To any one who will duplicate this mad, death-defying feat</span><br/>
MR. MACNOODER, <span class="font09">on behalf of Old Ironsides, will offer<br/>
the above reward. Doctor's or Undertaker's bills to be shared<br/>
in case of failure.</span></p>
</div>
<p class="center">
ROOM 67                ROOM 67<br/>
<span class="font09">Exhibition begins at 2 o'clock.</span>
</p>
<p class="p1">The above posters, prominently displayed, produced
a furore. By two o'clock fully one hundred
boys were in line before room 67. At two o'clock
Hickey addressed the crowd.</p>
<p>"Gentlemen, unfortunately a slight delay has become
necessary—only a slight delay. Mr. Ironsides
Smith's sense of natural delicacy is at present struggling
with Mr. Ironsides Smith's desire not to disappoint
his many friends and admirers. Just a
slight delay, gentlemen—just a slight delay."</p>
<p>A cry of protest went up and Hickey disappeared.
At the end of five minutes he returned radiant, announcing:</p>
<p>"Gentlemen, I am very glad to announce to you
that Old Ironsides will not disappoint his many admirers.
Only we wish it to be understood that this
is a strictly scientific exhibition with an educational
purpose in view. No levity will be tolerated. The
exhibition is about to begin. Have your nickels in
hand, gentlemen; ten cents for freshmen, with the
privilege of shaking hands with Old Ironsides himself!
Absolutely unique, absolutely unique!"</p>
<p>When the last spectator had filed out, Hickey, Macnooder
and Smith divided fifteen dollars and twenty
cents as pure profit, of which sum the gravel-stones
had brought no less than a third.</p>
<p>When on the fourth day Smith was able painfully
to descend the stairs and circulate in the world again
he felt the full delight of his newly-acquired fame.
At the jigger-shop, Al graciously waved aside his
tendered money, saying:</p>
<p>"I guess it's up to me, Ironsides, to stand treat.
Such things don't happen every day. Go ahead—do
your worst."</p>
<p>Bill Appleby and "Mista" Laloo, the rival livery
men, Bill Orum, the cobbler, Barnum of the village
store, even Doc Cubberly, the bell-ringer, with his
little dog, stopped to watch him pass. When he
crossed the campus youngsters gambolled up to his
side with solicitous inquiries and the inevitable:</p>
<p>"Say, weren't you awfully scared?"</p>
<p>Even in the classroom the Roman, after flunking
him, would say:</p>
<p>"That will do now, Smith. You may sit down—gently."</p>
<p>So he was now "Old Ironsides." He liked the name
and was proud of it. It had a certain grim, uncompromising
sternness about it that lent it dignity. It
sounded well and it had patriotic associations.</p>
<p>For a whole week he knew the intoxication of popularity,
of being the celebrity of the hour, of the
thrill that runs up and down the back when a dozen
glances are following, and the music of a murmured
name, admiringly pronounced. Then abruptly
another hero was exalted and he fell.</p>
<p>One evening after supper, while the fourth form
lounged on the esplanade of the Upper, Turkey
Reiter and Slugger Jones amused themselves with
teasing Goat Phillips, who, being privileged by his
diminutive size, responded by butting his tormentors
in vigorous fashion.</p>
<p>"My, what an awful rambunctious, great big
Goat," said Reiter, defending himself. "Do goats
eat neckties?"</p>
<p>"I'll eat yours," responded the youngster recklessly.</p>
<p>"Ten double jiggers to one you can't do it," said
Slugger Jones, lazily.</p>
<p>"Give me the tie," responded Phillips.</p>
<p>More to continue the joke than for any other
reason, Turkey detached the green and yellow cross
tie, which was his joy, and tendered it. What was
his amazement to see Goat Phillips calmly set to work
to devour it, and to devour it to the very last shred
in the most classic goat-fashion.</p>
<p>When he had swallowed the last mouthful he stood
stock-still and gazed at his shrieking audience. Then
he began to have doubts; then he began to have premonitions.
Then he ended by having settled on
rather the most unsettling convictions. The consideration
of the act came after the accomplishment,
but it came with terrifying force. What would happen
now?</p>
<p>"Turkey," he said, grown very solemn, "you
don't think I'm going to be poisoned, do you?"</p>
<p>Turkey became serious at once. Everyone became
serious.</p>
<p>"What do you fellows think?" said Turkey, addressing
the crowd.</p>
<p>No one had any opinions to volunteer. There were
no precedents to go by.</p>
<p>"He might get ptomaine poisoning," finally suggested
Shy Thomas.</p>
<p>"What's that?" said Goat, horrified. Shy was
forced to confess that he did not know. Hungry
Smeed thought it was when you cut your toe on an
oyster shell.</p>
<p>"See here, Goat," said Turkey, decisively, "we
can't fool with this any more. You come with me."</p>
<p>The now thoroughly demoralised and penitent
Goat went meekly between Turkey and Slugger toward
Foundation House. But on the way, encountering
the Roman, they decided to consult him instead.</p>
<p>"Please, sir," said Phillips, with difficult calm,
"I'd like to ask you something."</p>
<p>The master stopped and, prepared for any eventuality,
said:</p>
<p>"Well, Phillips, nothing serious, I hope?"</p>
<p>"Please, sir, I'm afraid it is," said Phillips, all in
a breath. "I've just eaten a necktie, sir."</p>
<p>"A what?"</p>
<p>"A necktie, sir, and I want to know if you think
I'm in any danger, sir."</p>
<p>The Roman stood stock-still for a long moment,
with dropped jaw; then, recovering himself, he said:</p>
<p>"A necktie, Phillips?"</p>
<p>"Yes, sir."</p>
<p>"A whole necktie?"</p>
<p>"Yes, sir."</p>
<p>"Well, Phillips, if you can eat a necktie I guess
you can digest it!"</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>The next morning, when Ironsides Smith unsuspectingly
strolled out into the campus, no soul did
him honour, not a glance turned as he turned, not
a first form youngster, primed with curiosity and
admiration, came rushing to his side. Instead, a
knot of boys at the far end of the esplanade were
clustered in excited contemplation about Goat Phillips,
the boy who had heroically eaten a necktie
rather than suffer a dare.</p>
<p>Then Ironsides understood—he was the hero of
yesterday. A new celebrity had risen for the delectation
of the fickle populace. The King was dead—long
live the King!</p>
<p>He went to the classroom disillusionised and sat
through the hour stolidly tasting the bitterness of
Napoleonic isolation. So this was the favour of
crowds. In a night to be dethroned and forgotten!</p>
<p>As he descended Memorial steps, Goat Phillips
passed, radiant, saluted by capricornian acclamations.</p>
<p>Smith regarded him darkly.</p>
<p>"As though any one couldn't eat a necktie," he
said in righteous disgust.</p>
<p>Unacclaimed he went through the crowd toward
the Upper—he who had risked life and limb to amuse
them for a week!</p>
<p>From a tower window in the Upper the Triumphant
Egghead, lolling on the cushioned window-seat,
called down lazily:</p>
<p>"Oh, you—Ironsides!"</p>
<p>That was the answer. Let popularity run after a
dozen unworthy lights. Other boys would come who
would eat neckties, no one ever would go the way
he had gone. He had nothing to do with transitory
emotions. He must be superior to the voice of the
hour. He, Ironsides, belonged to history. That,
nothing could take from him!</p>
<h2> <a id="THE_PROTEST_AGAINST_SINKERS">THE PROTEST AGAINST SINKERS</a></h2>
<hr class="full"/>
<p>The feeling of revolt sprang up at chapel during
the head master's weekly talk. Ordinarily the school
awaited these moments with expectation, received
them with tolerance and drew from them all the
humour that could be extracted.</p>
<p>These little heart-to-heart talks brought joy to
many an overweighted brain and obliterated momentarily
the slow, dragging months of slush and hail.
They also added, from time to time, picturesque expressions
to the school vocabulary—and for that
much was forgiven them. No one who heard it will
ever forget the slashing that descended from the
rostrum on the demon tobacco, in its embodied vice,
the cigarette, nor the chill that ran over each of the
four hundred cigarette smokers as the head master,
with his boring glance straight on him, concluded:</p>
<p>"Yes, I know what you boys will say; I know
what your plea will be when you are caught. You
will come to me and you'll say with tears in your
eyes, with tears:</p>
<p>"'Doctor, think of my mother—my poor mother—it
will kill my mother!'</p>
<p>"I tell you, <i>now</i> is the time to think of your
mother; <i>now</i> is the time to spare her grey hairs.
Every cigarette you boys smoke is a <i>nail in the
coffin of your mother</i>."</p>
<p>It was terrific. The school was unanimous in its
verdict that the old man had outdone himself. Boys,
whom a whiff of tobacco rendered instantly ill,
smoked up the ventilators that night with shivers of
delight, and from that day to this a cigarette has
never been called anything but a coffin-nail.</p>
<p>Only the week before, in announcing the suspension
of Corkscrew Higgins (since with the ministry),
for, among other offences, mistaking the initials
on the hat of Bucky Oliver as his own, the head
master in his determination to abolish forever such
deadly practices, had given forth the following:</p>
<p>"Young gentlemen, it is my painful duty, my very
painful duty, to announce to you the suspension of
the boy Higgins. The boy Higgins was a sloth,
the boy Higgins was the prince of sloths! The boy
Higgins was a gambler, the boy Higgins was the
prince of gamblers! The boy Higgins was a liar,
the boy Higgins was the prince of liars! The boy
Higgins was a thief, the boy Higgins was the prince
of thieves! Therefore, the boy Higgins will no
longer be a member of this community!"</p>
<p>The school pardoned the exaggeration in its admiration
for the rhetoric, which was rated up to the
oration against Catiline. But on the first Monday
of that lean month of February the school rose in
revolt. In a tirade against the alarming decline in
the percentage of scholastic marks the head master,
flinging all caution to the winds, had terminated with
these incendiary words:</p>
<p>"I know what the trouble is, and I'll tell you.
The trouble with you boys is <span class="smcap">Inordinate</span> and
<span class="smcap">Immoderate Eating</span>. The trouble with you boys is—You
Eat Too Much!"</p>
<p>Such a groan as went up! To comprehend the
monstrosity of the accusation it is not sufficient to
have been a boy; one must have retained the memory
of the sharp pains and gnawing appetites of those
growing days! Four hundred-odd famished forms,
just from breakfast, suddenly galvanised by that
unmerited blow, roared forth a unanimous indignant:</p>
<p>"<i>What!</i>"</p>
<p>"Eat too much!"—they could hardly believe their
ears. Had the head master of the school, with years
of personal experience, actually, in his sober mind,
proclaimed that they ate too much! The words had
been said; the accusation had to stand. And such
a time to proclaim it—in the month of sliced bananas
and canned vegetables! The protest that rumbled
and growled in the under-form houses exploded in
the Dickinson.</p>
<p>It so happened that for days there had been a
dull grumbling about the monotony of the daily
meals and the regularity and frequency of the appearance
of certain abhorrent dishes, known as
"scrag-birds and sinkers." "Scrag-bird" was a
generic term, allowing a wide latitude for conjecture,
but "sinker" was an opprobrious epithet dedicated
to a particularly hard, doughy substance that under
more favourable auspices sometimes, without fear
of contradiction, achieves the name of "dumpling."</p>
<p>The "sinker" was, undoubtedly, the deadliest enemy
of the growing boy—the most persistent, the
most malignant. It knew no laws and it defied all
restraint. It languished in the spring, but thrived
and multiplied amazingly in the canned, winter term.
It was as likely to bob up in a swimming dish of
boiled chicken as it was certain to accompany a
mutton stew. It associated at times with veal and
attached itself to corned beef; it concealed itself in
a beefsteak pie and clung to a leg of lamb. What
the red rag is to the bull, the pudgy white of the
"sinker" was to the boys, who, in a sort of desperate
hope of exterminating the species, never allowed one
to return intact to the kitchen. Twice a week was
the allotted appearance of the "sinker"; at a third
visit grumbling would break out; at a fourth arose
threats of leaving for Andover or Exeter, of writing
home, of boycotting the luncheon.</p>
<p>Now, it so happened that during the preceding
week the "sinker" had inflicted itself not four, but
actually six, times on that community of aching
voids. The brutal accusation of the head master
was the spark to the powder. The revolt assumed
head and form during the day, and a call for a
meeting of protest was unanimously made for that
very night.</p>
<p>The boys met with the spirit of the Boston Tea
Party, resolved to defend their liberties and assert
their independence. The inevitable Doc Macnooder
was to address the meeting. He spoke naturally,
fluently, with great sounding phrases, on any occasion,
on any topic, for his own pure delight, and
he always continued to speak until violently suppressed.</p>
<p>"Fellows," he began, without apologies to history—"we
are met to decide once and for all whether
we are a free governing body, to ask ourselves what
is all this worth? For weeks we have endured, supinely
on our backs, the tyranny of Mrs. Van Asterbilt,
the matron of this House. We have, I say,
supinely permitted each insult to pass unchallenged.
But the hour has struck, the worm has turned, the
moment has come and, without the slightest hesitation,
I ask you ... I ask you ... what
do I ask you?" he paused, and appealed for
enlightenment.</p>
<p>The meeting found him guilty of levity and threatened
him with the ban of silence.</p>
<p>Macnooder looked grieved and continued: "I ask
you to strike as your fathers struck. I ask you to
string the bow, to whet the knife, to sharpen the
tomahawk, to loose the dogs of war——"</p>
<p>Amid a storm of whoops and cat-calls, Macnooder
was pulled back into his seat. He rose and explained
that his peroration was completed and demanded
the inalienable right to express his opinions.</p>
<p>The demand was rejected by a vote of eighty-two
to one (Macnooder voting).</p>
<p>Butcher Stevens rose with difficulty and, clutching
the shoulder of Red Dog in front of him, addressed
the gathering as follows:</p>
<p>"Fellows, I am no silver-tongued orator and all I
want to say is just a few words. I think we want
to treat this thing seriously." (Cries of "Hear!
hear!" "Right.") "I think, fellows, this is a very
serious matter, and I think we ought to take some action.
This food matter is getting pretty bad. I
don't think, fellows, that we ought to stand for
'sinkers' the way they're coming at us, without some
action. I don't know just what action we ought
to take, but I think we ought really to take some
action."</p>
<p>The Butcher subsided into his seat amid immense
applause. Lovely Mead arose and jangling the keys
in his trousers pocket, addressed the ceiling in rapid,
jerky periods:</p>
<p>"Fellows, I think we ought to begin by taking a
vote—a vote. I think—I think the sentiment of this
meeting is about made up—made up. I think my
predecessor has very clearly expressed the—the—has
voiced the sentiments of this meeting—very
clearly. I think a vote would clear the air, therefore
I move we take a vote."</p>
<p>He sighed contentedly and returned into the
throng. Doc Macnooder sarcastically demanded
what they were to vote upon. Lovely Mead, in great
confusion, rose and stammered:</p>
<p>"I meant to say, Mr. Chairman, that I move we
take a vote, take a vote to—to take some action."</p>
<p>"Action about what?" said the merciless Macnooder.</p>
<p>Lovely Mead remained speechless. Hungry Smeed
interposed glibly:</p>
<p>"Mister Chairman, I move that it is the sense of
this meeting that we should take some action looking
toward the remedying of the present condition
of our daily meals."</p>
<p>The motion was passed and the chairman announced
that he was ready to hear suggestions as
to the nature of the act, as contemplated. A painful
silence succeeded.</p>
<p>Macnooder rose and asked permission to offer a
suggestion. The demand was repulsed. Wash Simmons
moved that at the next appearance of the abhorrent
"sinkers," they should rise and leave the
room <i>en masse</i>. It was decided that the plan entailed
too many sacrifices, and it was rejected.</p>
<p>Crazy Opdyke from the Woodhull developed the
following scheme, full of novelty and imagination:</p>
<p>"I say, fellows, I've got an idea, you know. What
we want is an object lesson, you know, something
striking. Now, fellows, this is what I propose:
We're eighty-five of us in these dining-rooms; now,
at two 'sinkers' each, that makes one hundred and
seventy 'sinkers' every time; at six times that makes
one thousand 'sinkers' a week. What we want to do
is to carry off the 'sinkers' from table, save them up,
and at the end of the week make a circle of them
around the campus as an object lesson!"</p>
<p>Macnooder, again, was refused permission to speak
in support of this measure, which had an instant appeal
to the imagination of the audience. In the end,
however, the judgment of the more serious prevailed,
and the motion was lost by a close vote. After more
discussion the meeting finally decided to appoint an
embassy of three, who should instantly proceed to
the head master's, and firmly lay before him the
Woodhull's and the Dickinson's demand for unconditional
and immediate suppression of that indigestible
and totally ornamental article known as "the
sinker." Hickey, Wash Simmons and Crazy Opdyke,
by virtue of their expressed defiance, were
chosen to carry the ultimatum. Some one proposed
that Macnooder should go as a fourth, and the motion
passed without opposition. Macnooder rose and
declined the honour, but asked leave to state his reasons.
Whereupon the meeting adjourned.</p>
<p>The Messrs. Crazy Opdyke, Hickey, and Wash
Simmons held a conference and decided to shave and
assume creased trousers in order to render the aspect
of their mission properly impressive. After a short
delay they united on the steps, where they received
the exhortations of their comrades—to speak out
boldly, to mince no words, and to insist on their
demands.</p>
<p>The distance to Foundation House, where the
head master resided, was short—thirty seconds in
the darkness; and almost before they knew it the
three were at the door. There, under the muffled
lamp, they stopped, with spontaneous accord, and
looked at one another.</p>
<p>"I say," said Hickey, "hadn't we better agree
on what we'll say to the old man? We want
to be firm, you know."</p>
<p>"That's a good idea," Opdyke assented, and Wash
added, "We'll take a turn down the road."</p>
<p>"Now, what's your idea?" said Simmons to
Hickey, when they had put a safe distance between
them and the residence of the Doctor.</p>
<p>"We'd better keep away from discussion," replied
Hickey. "The Doctor'll beat us out there,
and I don't think we'd better be too radical either,
because we want to be firm."</p>
<p>"What do you call radical?" said Opdyke, with
a little defiance.</p>
<p>"Well, now, we don't want to be too aggressive;
we don't want to go in with a chip on our shoulder."</p>
<p>"Hickey, you're beginning to hedge!"</p>
<p>Hickey indignantly denied the accusation, and a
little quarrel arose between them, terminated by
Wash, who broke in:</p>
<p>"Shut up, Crazy—Hickey is dead right. We
want to go in friendly-like, just as though we knew
the Doctor would side with us at once—sort of take
him into our confidence."</p>
<p>"That's it," said Hickey; "we want to be good-natured
at first, lay the matter before him calmly,
then afterward we can be firm."</p>
<p>"Rats!" said Crazy; "are we going to tell him,
or not, that we represent the Dickinson and the
Woodhull and that they have voted the extinction of
'sinkers'?"</p>
<p>"Sure we are!" exclaimed Wash. "You don't
think we are afraid, do you?"</p>
<p>"Well, then, let's tell him," said Crazy. "Come
on, if you're going to."</p>
<p>They returned resolutely and again entered the
dominion of the dreary lamp.</p>
<p>"Say, fellows," Wash suddenly interjected, "are
we going to say anything about 'scrag-birds'?"</p>
<p>"Sure," said Crazy.</p>
<p>"The deuce we are!" said Hickey.</p>
<p>"Why not?" said Crazy, militantly.</p>
<p>"Because we don't want to make fools of ourselves."</p>
<p>The three withdrew again and threshed out the
point. It was decided to concentrate on the "sinker."
Crazy gave in because he said he was cold.</p>
<p>"Well, now, it's all settled," said Hickey. "We
make a direct demand for knocking out the 'sinker,'
and we stand firm on that. Nothing else. Come on."</p>
<p>"Come on."</p>
<p>A third time they came to the terrible door.</p>
<p>"I say," said Wash, suddenly, "we forgot. Who's
to do the talking?"</p>
<p>"Crazy, of course," said Hickey, looking hard at
Simmons, "since that clapper episode, I'm not dropping
in for the dessert!"</p>
<p>"Sure, Crazy, you're just the one," Simmons
agreed.</p>
<p>"Hold up," said Crazy, whose fury suddenly
cooled. "Let's talk that over."</p>
<p>Again they retired for deliberation.</p>
<p>"Now, see here, fellows," said Crazy, "let's be
reasonable. We want this thing to go through,
don't we?"</p>
<p>"Who's hedging now?" said Hickey, with a laugh.</p>
<p>"No one," retorted Crazy. "I'll talk up if you
say. I'm not afraid, only I don't stand one, two,
three with the Doctor and you know it. I've flunked
every recitation in Bible this month. What we want
is the strongest pull—and Wash is the one. Why,
the old man would feed out of Wash's hand."</p>
<p>Wash indignantly repelled the insinuation. Finally
it was agreed that Crazy should state the facts,
that Hickey should say, "Doctor, we feel strongly,
very strongly, about this," and that Wash should
then make the direct demand for the suspension for
one month of the "sinker," and its future regulation
to two appearances a week.</p>
<p>"And now, no more backing and filling," said
Hickey.</p>
<p>"I'll lay the facts before him, all right," added
Crazy, clenching his fists.</p>
<p>"We'll stick together, and we stand firm," said
Wash. "Now for it!"</p>
<p>They had reached a point about thirty feet from
the threshold, when suddenly the door was flung violently
open and a luckless boy bolted out, under the
lamp, so that the three could distinguish the vehement
gestures. The Doctor appeared in a passion
of rage, calling after the retreating offender:</p>
<p>"Don't you dare, young man, to come to me again
with such a complaint. You get your work up to
where it ought to be, or down you go, and there
isn't a power in this country that can prevent it."</p>
<p>The door slammed violently and silence returned.</p>
<p>"He's not in a very receptive mood," said Wash,
after a long pause.</p>
<p>"Not precisely," said Hickey, thoughtfully.</p>
<p>"I'm catching cold," said Crazy.</p>
<p>"Suppose we put it over?" continued Wash.
"What do you say, Hickey?"</p>
<p>"I shall not oppose the will of the majority."</p>
<p>"And you, Crazy?"</p>
<p>"I think so, too."</p>
<p>They returned to the Dickinson, where they were
surrounded and assailed with questions: How had
the Doctor taken it?—What had he said?</p>
<p>"We took no talk from him," said Crazy, with a
determined shake of his head, and then Wash added
brusquely, "Just keep your eyes on the 'sinkers.'"</p>
<p>"You took long enough," put in the suspicious
Macnooder.</p>
<p>"We were firm," replied Hickey, bristling at the
recollection—"very firm!"</p>
<h2> <a id="BEAUTYS_SISTER">BEAUTY'S SISTER</a></h2>
<hr class="full"/>
<div class="block3">
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">His hair it is a faded white,</span>
<span class="i2">His eye a watery blue;</span>
<span class="i0">He has no buttons on his coat,</span>
<span class="i2">No shoe-strings in his shoe.</span>
</div></div>
</div>
<p>"Beauty" Sawtelle, or Chesterton V. Sawtelle,
as it was pronounced when each Monday the master
of the form read the bi-weekly absences from bath,
sat adjusting his skate on the edge of the pond, with
a look of ponderous responsibility on the freckled
face, crowned by a sheaf of tow hair, like the wisp
of a Japanese doll. Presently he drew from his
pocket a dance-card, glanced over it for the twentieth
time, and replaced it with a sigh.</p>
<p>"Cracky!" he said, in despair. "Sixteen regulars
and eight extras; sixteen and eight, twenty-four.
Gee!"</p>
<p>Beauty's heart was heavy, and his hope faint, for
the sinister finger of the Prom had cast its shadow
over the lighthearted democracy of boyhood. Into
this free republic, where no thoughts of the outside
society should penetrate, the demoralising swish of
coming petticoats had suddenly intruded its ominous
significance of a world without, where such tyrannies
as money and birth stand ready to divide the unsuspecting
hosts.</p>
<p>Now Beauty's woes were manifold: he was only a
second former, and the Prom was the property of
the lords of the school, the majestic fourth formers,
who lived in the Upper House, and governed themselves
according to the catalogue and a benevolent
tempering of the exact theory of independence.</p>
<p>A few rash under-formers with pretty sisters were
admitted on sufferance, and robbed of their partners
if the chance arose. Beauty, scrubby boy of
fourteen, with a like aversion to girls and stiff collars
in his ugly little body, had been horrified to
learn that his sister, at the invitation of Rogers,
the housemaster, was coming to the Prom. On his
shoulders devolved the herculean task of filling a
card from the upper class, only a handful of whom
he knew, at a moment when the cards had been circulated
for weeks. So he stood dejectedly, calculating
how to fill the twenty-four spaces that were
so blank and interminable. Twenty-four dances to
fill, and the Prom only two weeks off!</p>
<p>In the middle of the pond boys were darting and
swaying in a furious game of hockey. Beauty lingered,
biding his opportunity, searching the crowd
for a familiar face, until presently Wash Simmons,
emerging from the mêlée, darted to his side, grinding
his skates and coming to a halt for breath, with
a swift: "Hello, Venus! How's the Dickinson these
days?"</p>
<p>Beauty, murmuring an inaudible reply, stood
turning and twisting, desperately seeking to frame a
demand.</p>
<p>"What's the secret sorrow, Beauty?" continued
Wash, with a glance of surprise.</p>
<p>"I say, Wash," said Beauty, plunging—"I say,
have you got any dances left?"</p>
<p>"I? Oh, Lord, no!" said the pitcher of the school
nine, with a quick glance. "Gone long ago."</p>
<p>He drew the strap tight, dug his hands into his
gloves again, and with a nod flashed back into the
crowd. Beauty, gulping down something that rose
in his throat, started aimlessly to skirt the edge of
the pond. He had understood the look that Wash
had given him in that swift moment.</p>
<p>In this abstracted mood, he suddenly came against
something angular and small that accompanied him
to the ice with a resounding whack.</p>
<p>"Clumsy beast!" said a sharp voice.</p>
<p>From his embarrassed position, Beauty recognised
the Red Dog.</p>
<p>"Excuse me, Red Dog," he said hastily; "I didn't
see you."</p>
<p>"Why, it's Beauty," said the Red Dog, rubbing
himself. "Blast you! all the same."</p>
<p>"I say, Red Dog," said Beauty, "have you any
dances left?"</p>
<p>"All gone, Beauty," answered Red Dog, stooping
suddenly to recover his skate.</p>
<p>"Nothing left?"</p>
<p>"Nope—filled the last extra to-day," said Red
Dog, with the shining face of prevarication. Then
he added, "Why, Venus, are you going to the
Prom?"</p>
<p>"No," said Sawtelle; "it's my sister."</p>
<p>"Oh, I'm sorry. I'd like to oblige you, but you
see how it is," said Red Dog, lamely.</p>
<p>"I see."</p>
<p>"Ta, ta, Beauty! So long!"</p>
<p>Sawtelle shut his lips, struck a valiant blow at an
imaginary puck, and began to whistle.</p>
<div class="block3">
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">'Tis a jolly life we lead<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Care and sorrow we defy—<br/></span>
</div></div>
</div>
<p>After piping forth this inspiring chorus with
vigorous notes, the will gave way. He began another:</p>
<div class="block3">
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">To Lawrenceville my father sent me,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Where for college I should prepare;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">And so I settled down,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">In this queer, forsaken town,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">About five miles away from anywhere.<br/></span>
</div></div>
</div>
<p>The bellows gave out. Overcome by the mournfulness
of the last verse, he dropped wearily on the
bank, continuing doggedly:</p>
<div class="block3">
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">About five miles from anywhere, my boys,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Where old Lawrenceville evermore shall stand;<br/></span>
<span class="i2">For has she not stood,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">Since the time of the flood—<br/></span>
</div></div>
</div>
<p>Whether the accuracy of the last statement or the
forced rhyme displeased him, he broke off, heaved a
sigh, and said viciously: "They lied, both of 'em."</p>
<p>"Well, how's the boy?" said a familiar voice.</p>
<p>Beauty came out of the vale of bitterness to perceive
at his side the great form of Turkey Reiter,
preparing to adjust his skates.</p>
<p>"Oh, Turkey," said Beauty, clutching at the
straw, "I've been looking everywhere——"</p>
<p>"What's the matter?"</p>
<p>"Turkey, I'm in an awful hole."</p>
<p>"Out with it."</p>
<p>"I say, Turkey," said Sawtelle, stumbling and
blushing—"I say, you know, my sister's coming to
the Prom, and I thought if you'd like—that is, I
wanted to know if—if you wouldn't take her dance-card
and get it filled for me." Then he added abjectly:
"I'm awfully sorry."</p>
<p>Turkey looked thoughtful. This was a commission
he did not relish. Beauty looked particularly
unattractive that afternoon, in a red tobogganing
toque that swore at his faded white hair, and the
orange freckles that stared out from every point
of vantage.</p>
<p>"Why, Beauty," he began hesitatingly, "the way
it is, you see, my card's already filled, and I'm afraid,
honestly, that's about the case with all the others."</p>
<p>"She's an awfully nice girl," said Sawtelle, looking
down in a desperate endeavour to control his
voice.</p>
<p>"Nice girl," thought Turkey, "ahem! Yes; must
be a good-looker, too, something on Venus's particular
line of beauty."</p>
<p>He glanced at his companion, and mentally pictured
a lanky girl, with sandy hair, a little upstart
nose, and a mass of orange freckles. But between
Turkey and Sawtelle relations had been peculiar.
There had been many moments in the last year at the
Dickinson when the ordinary luxuries of life would
have been difficult had it not been for the superior
financial standing of Chesterton V. Sawtelle. The
account had been a long one, and there was a slight
haziness in Turkey's mind as to the exact status of
the balance. Also, Turkey was genuinely grateful,
with that sense of gratitude which is described as a
lively looking forward to favours to come.</p>
<p>"Oh, well, young un," he said with rough good
humour, "give us the card. I'll do what I can. But,
mind you, I can't take any myself. My card's full,
and it wouldn't do for me to cut dances."</p>
<p>Jumping up, he started to escape the effusive
thanks of the overjoyed Sawtelle, but suddenly
wheeled and came skating back.</p>
<p>"Hello, Beauty!" he called out, "I say, what's
your sister's name?"</p>
<p>"Sally—that is, Sarah," came the timid answer.</p>
<p>"Heavens!" said Turkey to himself as he flashed
over the ice. "That settles it. Sally—Sally! A
nice pickle I'm in! Wonder if she sports spectacles
and old-fashioned frocks. A nice pickle—I'll be the
laughing stock of the whole school. Guess I won't
have much trouble recognising Beauty's sister.
Whew! That comes from having a kind heart!"</p>
<p>With these and similar pleasant reflections he
threaded his way among the crowd of skaters until
at length he perceived Hickey skimming over the
ice, stealing the puck from a bunch of scrambling
players, until his progress checked, and the puck
vanishing into a distant mêlée, he came to a stop for
breath. Turkey, profiting by the occasion, descended
on his victim.</p>
<p>"Whoa there, Hickey!"</p>
<p>"Whoa it is!"</p>
<p>"How's your dance-card?"</p>
<p>"A dazzling galaxy of beauty, a symposium of
grace, a feast of——"</p>
<p>"Got anything left? I have a wonder for you
if you have."</p>
<p>"Sure; twelfth regular and sixth extra—but the
duchess will be awfully cut up."</p>
<p>"Twelfth and sixth," said Turkey, with a nod;
"that's a go."</p>
<p>"Who's the heart-smasher?" asked Hickey, with
an eye on the approaching puck.</p>
<p>"A wonder, Hickey; a screamer. There'll be
nothing to it. Ta, ta! Much obliged."</p>
<p>"What's her name?"</p>
<p>"Sawtelle—some distant relative of the Beauty's,
I believe. I'm filling out her card. Obliged for the
dance. Ta, ta!"</p>
<p>"Hold up!" said Hickey, quickly. "Hold up!
Jiminy! I almost forgot—why, I do believe I went
and promised those two to Hasbrouck. Isn't that a
shame! Sorry. To think of my forgetting that!
Try to give you some other. Confound it! I have
no luck." With the most mournful look in the world
he waved his hand and sped ostentatiously toward
the bunch of players.</p>
<p>"Hickey's on to me," thought Turkey as he
watched him disengage himself from the crowd and
skate off with Sawtelle; "no hope in that quarter."</p>
<p>Finally, after an hour's persistent work, during
which he pleaded and argued, commanded and threatened,
he succeeded in filling exactly six of the necessary
twenty-four dances. Indeed, he would have had
no difficulty in completing the card if he could have
passed over that fatal name. But each time, just as
he was congratulating himself on another conquest,
his victim would ask, "By the way, what name shall
I put down?"</p>
<p>"Oh—er—Miss Sawtelle," he would answer nonchalantly;
"a distant relative of the Beauty—though
nothing like him—ha! ha!"</p>
<p>Then each would suddenly remember that the
dances in question were already half-promised,—a
sort of an understanding; but of course he would
have to look it up,—but of course, if he found they
were free, why, then of course, he wanted, above all
things in the world, to dance with Miss Sawtelle.</p>
<p>"Well, anyhow," said Turkey to himself, recapitulating,
"I've got six, provided they don't all back
out. Let me see. I can make the Kid take three,—that's
nine,—and Snookers will have to take three,—that's
twelve,—and, hang it! Butcher and Egghead
have got to take two each—that would make
sixteen. The other eight I can fill up with some
harmless freaks: some will snap at anything."</p>
<p>That night at the supper-table Turkey had to
face the music.</p>
<p>"You're a nice one, you are," said Hickey,
starting in immediately, "you arch deceiver. You
are a fine friend; I have my opinion of you. 'Handsome
girl,' 'a wonder,' 'fine talker,' 'a screamer'—that's
the sort of game you try on your friends, is
it? Who is she? Oh—ah, yes, a <i>distant</i> relative of
the Beauty."</p>
<p>"What's up now?" said the Kid, editor of the
"Lawrence," and partner of Turkey's secrets, joys,
and debts.</p>
<p>"Hasn't he tried to deceive you yet?" continued
Hickey, with an accusing look at Turkey. "No?
That's a wonder! What do you think of a fellow
who tries to pass off on his friends such a girl as the
Beauty's sister?"</p>
<p>"No!" said Butcher Stevens.</p>
<p>"What!" exclaimed Macnooder, laying down his
knife with a thud.</p>
<p>"Beauty's sister," said the Egghead, gaping with
astonishment.</p>
<p>"Well, why not?" said Turkey, defiantly.</p>
<p>"Listen to that!" continued Hickey. "The brazenness
of it!"</p>
<p>The four graduates of the Dickinson, after a
moment of stupefied examination of Hickey and
Reiter, suddenly burst into roars of laughter that
produced a craning of necks and a storm of inquiries
from the adjoining tables.</p>
<p>When the hilarity had been somewhat checked,
Hickey returned to the persecution of the blushing
Turkey.</p>
<p>"Bet you three to one she's a mass of freckles,"
he said. "Bet you even she wears glasses; bet you
one to three she's cross-eyed; bet you four to one
she won't open her mouth."</p>
<p>"Hang you, Hickey!" said Turkey, flushing,
"I won't have her talked about so."</p>
<p>"Did you take any dances?" said the Kid to
Hickey.</p>
<p>"Me?" exclaimed the latter, in great dudgeon.
"Me! Well, I guess not! I wouldn't touch any of
that tribe with a ten-foot pole."</p>
<p>"Look here, you fellows have got to shut up," said
Turkey, forced at last into a virtuous attitude by
the exigency of the situation. "I promised the
Beauty I'd fill his sister's card for him, and I'm
going to do it. The girl can't help her looks. You
talk like a lot of cads. What you fellows ought to
do is to join in and give her a treat. The girl is
probably from the backwoods, and this ought to be
made the time of her life."</p>
<p>"Turkey," said the malicious Hickey, "how many
dances have you eagerly appropriated?"</p>
<p>Turkey stopped point-blank, greeted by derisive
jeers.</p>
<p>"Oho!"</p>
<p>"That's it, is it?"</p>
<p>"Fake!"</p>
<p>"Humbug!"</p>
<p>"Not at all," said Turkey, indignantly. "What
do you think I am?"</p>
<p>"Pass over your list and let's see the company
you're going to introduce her to," said Hickey,
stretching out his hand for the dance-card. "Ah,
I must congratulate you, my boy; your selection
is magnificent; the young lady will be charmed."
He flipped the card disdainfully to the Egghead,
saying, "A bunch of freaks!"</p>
<p>"Hang it all!" said the Egghead, "that's too
hard on any girl. A fine opinion she'll have of Lawrenceville
fellows! We can't stand for that."</p>
<p>"Look here," said the Kid, suddenly. "Turkey
is at fault, and has got to be punished. Here's what
we'll do, though: let's each take a dance on condition
that Turkey takes her out to supper."</p>
<p>"Oh, I say!" protested Turkey, who had other
plans.</p>
<p>The others acclaimed the plan gleefully, rejoicing
in his discomfiture, until Turkey, driven to a corner,
was forced to capitulate.</p>
<p>That evening on the esplanade he called Snookers
to him, and resting his hand affectionately on the
little fellow's shoulder, said: "Old man, do you
want to do me a favour?"</p>
<p>"Sure."</p>
<p>"I'm filling up a girl's card for the Prom, and
I want you to help me out."</p>
<p>"Certainly; give me a couple, if the girl's the real
thing."</p>
<p>"Much obliged. I'll put your name down."</p>
<p>"Second and fifth. Say, who is she?"</p>
<p>"Oh, some relative of Sawtelle's—you remember
you used to go with him a good deal in the Dickinson.
It's his sister."</p>
<p>"Whew!" said Snookers, with a long-drawn
whistle. "Say, give me three more, will you?"</p>
<p>"Hardly," answered Turkey, with a laugh; "but
I'll spare you another."</p>
<p>"I didn't think it quite fair to the girl," he explained
later, "to give her too big a dose of Snookers.
Queer, though, how eager the little brute was!"</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>The last week dragged interminably in multiplied
preparations for the great event. In the evenings
the war of strings resounded across the campus
from the "gym," where the Banjo and Mandolin
clubs strove desperately to perfect themselves for
the concert. The Dramatic Club, in sudden fear,
crowded the day with rehearsals, while from the window
of Room 65, Upper, the voice of Biddy Hampton,
soloist of the Glee Club, was heard chanting
"The Pride of the House is Papa's Baby" behind
doors stout enough to resist the assaults of his neighbours.</p>
<p>Oil-stoves and flatirons immediately came into demand,
cushions were rolled back from window-seats,
and trousers that were limp and discouraged, grew
smooth and well-creased under the pressure of the
hot iron. Turkey and Doc Macnooder, who from
their long experience in the Dickinson had become
expert tailors, advertised on the bulletin board:</p>
<p class="center">
REITER AND MACNOODER<br/>
<span class="smcap">Bon Ton Tailors</span><br/>
</p>
<div class="block3">
<p>Trousers neatly pressed, at fifteen cents per pair; all
payments strictly cash—<i>in advance</i>.</p>
</div>
<p class="p1">Each night the dining-room of the Upper was
cleared, and the extraordinary spectacle was seen of
boys of all sizes in sweaters and jerseys, clasping each
other desperately around the waist, spinning and
bumping their way about the reeling room to the
chorus of:</p>
<p>"Get off my feet!"</p>
<p>"Reverse, you lubber!"</p>
<p>"Now, <i>one</i>, two, three——"</p>
<p>"A fine lady you are!"</p>
<p>"Do you expect me to carry you around the
room?"</p>
<p>"Darn you, fatty!"</p>
<p>"Hold tight!"</p>
<p>"Let 'er rip now!"</p>
<p>From the end of the room the cynics and misogynists,
roosting on the piled-up tables and chairs,
croaked forth their contempt:</p>
<p>"Oh, you fussers!"</p>
<p>"You lady-killers!"</p>
<p>"Dance, my darling, dance!"</p>
<p>"Squeeze her tight, Bill!"</p>
<p>"That's the way!"</p>
<p>"Look at Skinny!"</p>
<p>"Keep a-hoppin', Skinny!"</p>
<p>"Look at him spin!"</p>
<p>"For heaven's sake, someone stop Skinny!"</p>
<p>Of evenings certain of the boys would wander in
pairs to the edge of the woods and confide to each
other the secret attachments and dark, forlorn hopes
that were wasting them away. Turkey and the Kid,
who were going as stags, opened their hearts to each
other and spoke of the girl, the one distant girl, whose
image not all the fair faces that would come could
for a moment dim.</p>
<p>"Kid," said Turkey, in solemn conclusion, speaking
from the experience of eighteen years, "I am
going to make that little girl—my wife."</p>
<p>"Turkey, old man, God bless you!" answered the
confidant, with nice regard for old precedents. Then
he added, a little choked, "Turkey, I, too—I——"</p>
<p>"I understand, Kid," said Turkey, gravely clapping
his shoulder; "I've known it all along."</p>
<p>"Dear old boy!"</p>
<p>They walked in silence.</p>
<p>"What's her name?" asked Turkey, slowly.</p>
<p>"Lucille. And hers?"</p>
<p>"Marie Louise."</p>
<p>Another silence.</p>
<p>"Kid, is it all right?"</p>
<p>The romanticist considered a moment, and then
shook his head.</p>
<p>"No, Turk."</p>
<p>"Dear old boy, you'll win out."</p>
<p>"I must. And you, Turk, does she care?"</p>
<p>A heavy sigh was the answer. They walked back
arm in arm, each fully believing in the other's sorrow,
and almost convinced of his own. At the esplanade
of the Upper they stopped and listened to
the thumping of the piano and the systematic beat
from the dancers.</p>
<p>"I wish it were all over," said Turkey, gloomily.
"This can mean nothing to me."</p>
<p>"Nor to me," said the Kid, staring at the melancholy
moon.</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>On the fateful day the school arose, so to speak, as
one boy, shaved, and put on a clean collar. Every
boot was blacked, every pair of trousers creased to a
cutting edge. The array of neckties that suddenly
appeared in gigantic puffs or fluttering wings was
like the turn of autumn in a single night.</p>
<p>Chapel and the first two recitations over, the esplanade
of the Upper was crowded with fourth
formers, circulating critically in the dandified
throng, chattering excitedly of the coming event.
Perish the memory of the fashion there displayed!
It seemed magnificent then: let that be the epitaph.</p>
<p>The bell called, and the group slowly departed to
the last recitation. From each house a stream of
boys came pouring out and made their lagging way
around the campus toward Memorial. Slower and
slower rang the bell, and faster came the unwilling
slaves—those in front with dignity; those behind
with despatch, and so on down the line to the last
scattered stragglers, who came racing over the lawns.
The last peal sounded, the last laggard tore up Memorial
steps, and vanished within. A moment later
the gong in the hall clanged, and the next recitation
was on. The circle, a moment before alive with
figures, was quiet and deserted. A group of seven
or eight lounging on the esplanade were chatting
indolently, tossing a ball back and forth with the
occupant of a third-story window.</p>
<p>At this moment Turkey emerged from the doorway
in shining russets, a Gladstone collar, a tie of robin's-egg-blue,
and a suit of red and green plaids, such
as the innocent curiosity of a boy on his first allowance
goes to with the thirst of possession.</p>
<p>"Hurrah for Turkey!" cried the Kid. "He looks
like a regular fashion-plate."</p>
<p>In an instant he was surrounded, punched, examined,
and complimented.</p>
<p>"Well, fellows, it's time to give ourselves them
finishing touches," said the Egghead, with a glance
of envy. "Turkey is trying to steal a march on us.
The girls are coming."</p>
<p>"Hello!" cried the Kid, suddenly. "Who's
this?"</p>
<p>All turned. From behind Foundation House
came a carriage. It drove on briskly until nearly
opposite the group on the steps, when the driver
reined in, and some one within looked out dubiously.</p>
<p>"Turkey, you're in luck," said the Gutter Pup.
"You're the only one with the rouge on. Go down
gracefully and see what the lady wants."</p>
<p>So down went Turkey to his duty. They watched
him approach the carriage and speak to some one
inside. Then he closed the door and spoke to the
driver, evidently pointing out his destination, for the
cab continued around the circle.</p>
<p>Then Turkey made a jump for the esplanade, and,
deaf to all inquiries, seized upon his roommate and
dragged him aside.</p>
<p>"Great guns! Kid," he exclaimed, "I've seen
her—Beauty's sister! She isn't like Beauty at all.
She's a stunner, a dream! Look here! Get that
dance-card. Get it, if you have to lie and steal.
He's in recitation now. You've got to catch him
when he comes out. For heaven's sake! don't let
anyone get ahead of you. Tell him two girls have
backed out, and I want five more dances. Tell him
I'm to take her to the debate to-night, and the Dramatic
Club to-morrow. Kid, get that card!"</p>
<p>Releasing his astounded roommate, he went tearing
across the campus to meet the carriage.</p>
<p>"What's happened to our staid and dignified president?"
cried the Gutter Pup in wonder. "Is he
crazy?"</p>
<p>"Oh, say, fellows," exclaimed the Kid, overcome
by the humour of the situation, "who do you think
that was?"</p>
<p>The carriage had now stopped before the Dickinson,
and Turkey, arrived in time, was helping out
a tall, slender figure in black. A light flashed over
the group.</p>
<p>"Beauty's sister."</p>
<p>"No!"</p>
<p>"Yes."</p>
<p>"Impossible!"</p>
<p>"Beauty's sister it is," cried the Kid; "and the
joke is, she's a stunner, a dream!"</p>
<p>"A dream!" piped up the inevitable Snookers.
"Well, I guess! She's an all-round A-No. 1. Gee!
I just got a glimpse of her at a theatre, and I tell
you, boys, she's a paralyser."</p>
<p>But his remark ended on the air, for all, with a
common impulse, had disappeared. Snookers, struck
with the same thought, hastened to his room.</p>
<p>Ten minutes later they reappeared. Hickey, in
a suit of pronounced checks, his trousers carefully
turned up <i>à l'Anglais</i>, glanced approvingly at the
array of manly fashion.</p>
<p>"And now, fellows," he said, pointing to the
Chapel, which Turkey was entering with Miss Sawtelle,
"that traitor shall be punished. We'll guard
every entrance to Memorial, capture our friend,
'Chesterton V. Sawtelle (absent from bath),' relieve
him of that little dance-card, and then, Romans, to
the victors belong the spoils!"</p>
<p>The Kid having delayed over the choice between
a red-and-yellow necktie or one of simple purple, did
not appear until Hickey had stationed his forces.
Taking in the situation at a glance, he chuckled to
himself, and picking up a couple of books, started
for the entrance.</p>
<p>"Lucky it's Hungry and the Egghead," he said
to himself as he passed them and entered the Lower
Hall. "Hickey would have guessed the game."</p>
<p>He called Sawtelle from the second form, and,
slipping his arm through his, drew him down the corridor.</p>
<p>"Sawtelle," he said, "I want your sister's dance-card.
There's some mistake, and Turkey wants to
fix it up. Thanks; that's all. Oh, no, it isn't, either.
Turkey said he'd be over after supper to take your
sister to the debate, and that he had seats for the
Dramatic Club to-morrow. Don't forget all that.
So long! See you later."</p>
<p>In high feather at the success of this stratagem,
he skipped downstairs, and avoiding Hickey, went
to meet Turkey in the Chapel, where he was duly
presented.</p>
<p>When Sawtelle emerged at length from the study-room,
he was amazed at the spontaneity of his reception.
He was no longer "Beauty" or "Apollo"
or "Venus."</p>
<p>"Sawtelle, old man," they said to him, "I want
to see you a moment."</p>
<p>"Chesterton, where have you been?"</p>
<p>"Old man, have you got anything to do?"</p>
<p>Each strove to draw him away from the others,
and failing in this, accompanied him to the jigger-shop,
where he was plied with substantial flattery,
until having disposed of jiggers, soda, and éclairs,
he cast one lingering glance at the tempting counters,
and said with a twinkle in his ugly little eyes:</p>
<p>"And now, fellows, I guess my sister must be
over at the house. Come around this afternoon, why
don't you, and meet her?"—an invitation which was
received with enthusiasm and much evident surprise.</p>
<p>When the Prom opened that evening, Beauty's sister
made her entrée flanked by the smitten Turkey
and the languishing Hasbrouck, while the stricken
Kid brought up the rear, consoled by the responsibility
of her fan. Five stags who had been lingering
miserably in the shadow searching for something
daring and imaginative to lay at her feet, crowded
forward only to be stricken dumb at the splendour
of her toilette.</p>
<p>Beauty's sister, fresh from a Continental season,
was quite overwhelmed by the subtle adoration of the
famous Wash Simmons and of Egghead, that pattern
of elegance and <i>savoir-faire</i>—overwhelmed, but not
at all confused. Gradually under her deft manipulation
the power of speech returned to the stricken.
Then the rout began. The young ladies from city
and country finishing schools, still struggling with
their teens, were quite eclipsed by the gorgeous Parisian
toilette and the science of movement displayed
by the sister of Chesterton V. Sawtelle. The ordinary
ethics of fair play were thrown to the winds.
Before the eyes of every one, Turkey held up the
worthless dance-card, and tore it into shreds. Only
the brave should deserve the fair. Little Smeed,
Poler Fox, and Snorky Green struggled in vain for
recognition, and retired crestfallen and defrauded,
to watch the scramble for each succeeding dance,
which had to be portioned among three and often
four clamourers.</p>
<p>In fact, it became epidemic. They fell in love by
blocks of five, even as they had sought the privileges
of the measles. Each implored a memento to fix
imperishably on his wall. The roses she wore consoled
a dozen. The Gutter Pup obtained her fan;
the Kid her handkerchief, a wonderful scented transparency.
Glendenning and Hasbrouck brazenly divided
the gloves, while Turkey, trembling at his own
blurting audacity, was blown to the stars by permission
to express in a letter certain delicate thoughts
which stifle in the vulgar scramble of the ballroom.</p>
<p>When the last dance had been fought for, divided,
and redivided, and the lights peremptorily suppressed,
the stags <i>en masse</i> accompanied Beauty's sister to the
Dickinson, where each separately pressed her hand
and strove to give to his "Good-night" an accent
which would be understood by her alone.</p>
<p>On that next morning that somehow always arises,
Turkey and the Kid, envied by all, drove her to the
station, listening mutely to her gay chatter, each
plunged in melancholy, secretly wondering how she
managed to conceal her feelings so well.</p>
<p>They escorted her to the car, and loaded her with
magazines and candies and flowers, and each succeeded
in whispering in her ear a rapid, daring sentence,
which she received from each with just the
proper encouragement. Then, imaginary Lucilles
and Marie Louises forgot, they drove back, heavy
of heart, and uncomprehending, viewing the landscape
without joy or hope, suffering stoically as men
of eighteen should. Not a word was spoken until
from the last hill they caught the first glimmer of
the school. Then Turkey hoarsely, flicking the air
with the lash of the whip, said:</p>
<p>"Kid—"</p>
<p>"What?"</p>
<p>"That <i>was</i> a woman."</p>
<p>"A woman of the world, Turkey."</p>
<p>They left the carriage at the stable, and strolled
up to the jigger-shop, joining the group, all intent
on the coming baseball season; and gradually the
agony eased a bit. Presently a familiar little figure,
freckled and towheaded, sidled into the shop, and
stood with fists jammed in empty pockets, sniffing
the air for succour.</p>
<p>"Oh, you Beauty! oh, you astonishing Venus!"
cried the inevitable persecutor. Then from the
crowd Macnooder began to intone the familiar lines:</p>
<div class="block3">
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"His hair, it is a faded white,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">His eye a watery blue;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">He has no buttons on his coat,<br/></span>
<span class="i2">No shoe-strings in his shoe."<br/></span>
</div></div>
</div>
<p class="p1">"Doc," said the Beauty, blushing sheepishly,
"set me up to a jigger, will you? Go on, now!"</p>
<p>Then Macnooder, roaring, shouted back: "Not
this year; next year—<span class="smcap">Sister</span>!"</p>
<h2> <a id="THE_GREAT_BIG_MAN">THE GREAT BIG MAN</a></h2>
<hr class="full"/>
<p>The noon bell was about to ring, the one glorious
spring note of that inexorable "Gym" bell that
ruled the school with its iron tongue. For at noon,
on the first liberating stroke, the long winter term
died and the Easter vacation became a fact.</p>
<p>Inside Memorial Hall the impatient classes stirred
nervously, counting off the minutes, sitting gingerly
on the seat-edges for fear of wrinkling the carefully
pressed suits or shifting solicitously the sharpened
trousers in peril of a bagging at the knees. Heavens!
how interminable the hour was, sitting there in
a planked shirt and a fashion-high collar—and what
a recitation! Would Easter ever begin, that long-coveted
vacation when the growing boy, according
to theory, goes home to rest from the fatiguing
draining of his brain, but in reality returns exhausted
by dinners, dances, and theatres, with perhaps
a little touch of the measles to exchange with
his neighbours. Even the masters droned through
the perfunctory exercises, flunking the boys by twos
and threes, by groups, by long rows, but without
malice or emotion.</p>
<p>Outside, in the roadway, by the steps, waited a
long, incongruous line of vehicles, scraped together
from every stable in the countryside, forty-odd. A
few buggies for nabobs in the Upper House, two-seated
rigs (holding eight), country buckboards,
excursion wagons to be filled according to capacity
at twenty-five cents the trip, hacks from Trenton,
and the regulation stage-coach—all piled high with
bags and suitcases, waiting for the bell that would
start them on the scramble for the Trenton station,
five miles away. At the horses' heads the lazy negroes
lolled, drawing languid puffs from their cigarettes,
unconcerned.</p>
<p>Suddenly the bell rang out, and the supine teamsters,
galvanising into life, jumped to their seats.
The next moment, down the steps, pell-mell, scrambling
and scuffling, swarming over the carriages,
with joyful clamour, the school arrived. In an instant
the first buggies were off, with whips frantically
plied, disputing at a gallop the race to Trenton.</p>
<p>Then the air was filled with shouts.</p>
<p>"Where's Butsey?"</p>
<p>"Oh, you, Red Dog!"</p>
<p>"Where's my bag?"</p>
<p>"Jump in!"</p>
<p>"Oh, we'll never get there!"</p>
<p>"Drive on!"</p>
<p>"Don't wait!"</p>
<p>"Where's Jack?"</p>
<p>"Hurry up, you loafer!"</p>
<p>"Hurry up, you butter-fingers!"</p>
<p>"Get in!"</p>
<p>"Pile in!"</p>
<p>"Haul him in!"</p>
<p>"We're off!"</p>
<p>"Hurrah!"</p>
<p>Wagon after wagon, crammed with joyful boyhood,
disappeared in a cloud of dust, while back
returned a confused uproar of broken cheers,
snatches of songs, with whoops and shrieks for more
speed dominating the whole. The last load rollicked
away to join the mad race, where far ahead a
dozen buggies, with foam-flecked horses, vied with
one another, their youthful jockeys waving their
hats, hurling defiance back and forth, or shrieking
with delight as each antagonist was caught and left
behind.</p>
<p>The sounds of striving died away, the campus
grew still once more. The few who had elected to
wait until after luncheon scattered hurriedly about
the circle and disappeared in the houses, to fling
last armfuls into the already bursting trunks.</p>
<p>On top of Memorial steps the Great Big Man remained,
solitary and marooned, gazing over the
fields, down the road to Trenton, where still the rising
dust-clouds showed the struggle toward vacation.
He stood like a monument, gazing fixedly, struggling
with all the might of his twelve years to conquer the
awful feeling of homesickness that came to him.
Homesickness—the very word was an anomaly: what
home had he to go to? An orphan without ever
having known his father, scarcely remembering his
mother in the hazy reflections of years, little Joshua
Tibbets had arrived at the school at the beginning
of the winter term, to enter the shell,<a id="FNanchor_1_1"/><a class="fnanchor pginternal" href="#Footnote_1_1">[1]</a> and gradually
pass through the forms in six or seven years.</p>
<p>The boys of the Dickinson, after a glance at his
funny little body and his plaintive, doglike face,
had baptised him the "Great Big Man" (Big Man
for short), and had elected him the child of the
house.</p>
<p>He had never known what homesickness was before.
He had had a premonition of it, perhaps, from
time to time during the last week, wondering a little
in the classroom as each day Snorky Green, beside
him, calculated the days until Easter, then the hours,
then the minutes. He had watched him with an
amused, uncomprehending interest. Why was he so
anxious to be off? After all, he, the Big Man,
found it a pleasant place, after the wearisome life
from hotel to hotel. He liked the boys; they were
kind to him, and looked after his moral and spiritual
welfare with bluff but affectionate solicitude. It is
true, one was always hungry, and only ten and a
half hours' sleep was a refinement of cruelty unworthy
of a great institution.</p>
<p>But it was pleasant
running over to the jigger-shop and doing errands
for giants like Reiter and Butcher Stevens, with
the privileges of the commission. He liked to be
tumbled in the grass by the great tackle of the
football eleven, or thrown gently from arm to arm
like a medicine-ball, quits for the privileges of pommelling
his big friends <i>ad libitum</i> and without fear
of reprisals. And then what a privilege to be allowed
to run out on the field and fetch the nose-guard
or useless bandage, thrown down haphazard,
with the confidence that he, the Big Man, was there
to fetch and guard! Then he was permitted to share
their studies, to read slowly from handy, literal
translations, his head cushioned on the Egghead's
knee, while the lounging group swore genially at
Pius Æneas or sympathised with Catiline. He
shagged elusive balls and paraded the bats at shoulder-arms.
He opened the mail, and sorted it, fetching
the bag from Farnum's. He was even allowed
to stand treat to the mighty men of the house whenever
the change in his pocket became too heavy for
comfort.</p>
<p>In return he was taught to box, to wind tennis
rackets, to blacken shoes, to crease trousers, and sew
on the buttons of the house. Nothing was lacking
to his complete happiness.</p>
<p>Then lately he had begun to realise that there
was something else in the school life, outside it, but
very much a part of it—vacation.</p>
<p>At first the idea of quitting such a fascinating
life was quite incomprehensible to him. What gorging
dinner-party could compare with the thrill of
feasting at midnight on crackers and cheese, devilled
ham, boned chicken, mince pie and root beer, by the
light of a solitary candle, with the cracks of the
doors and windows smothered with rugs and blankets,
listening at every mouthful for the tread of the master
that sometimes (oh, acme of delight!) actually
passed unsuspectingly by the door?</p>
<p>Still, there was a joy in leaving all this. He
began to notice it distinctly when the trunks were
hauled from the cellar and the packing began. The
packing—what a lark that had been! He had folded
so many coats and trousers, carefully, in their
creases, under Macnooder's generous instructions,
and, perched on the edge of the banisters like a
queer little marmoset, he had watched Wash Simmons
throw great armfuls of assorted clothing into
the trays and chum them into place with a baseball
bat, while the Triumphant Egghead carefully built
up his structure with nicety and tenderness. Only
he, the Big Man, sworn to secrecy, knew what Hickey
had surreptitiously inserted in the bottom of Egghead's
trunk, and also what, from the depths of
Wash's muddled clothing, would greet the fond
mother or sister who did the unpacking; and every
time he thought of it he laughed one of those laughs
that pain. Then gleefully he had watched Macnooder
stretching a strap until it burst with consequences
dire, to the complete satisfaction of Hickey, Turkey,
Wash, and the Egghead, who, embracing fondly
on the top of another trunk, were assisting Butcher
Stevens to close an impossible gap.</p>
<p>Yet into all this amusement a little strain of
melancholy had stolen. Here was a sensation of
which he was not part, an emotion he did not know.
Still, his imagination did not seize it; he could not
think of the halls quiet, with no familiar figures lolling
out of the windows, or a campus unbrokenly
green.</p>
<p>Now from his lonely eerie on Memorial steps, looking
down the road to vacation, the Great Big Man
suddenly understood—understood and felt. It was
he who had gone away, not they. The school he
loved was not with him, but roaring down to Trenton.
No one had thought to invite him for a visit;
but then, why should anyone?</p>
<p>"I'm only a runt, after all," he said, angrily, to
himself. He stuck his fists deep in his pockets, and
went down the steps like a soldier and across the
campus chanting valorously the football slogan:</p>
<div class="block3">
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i4">Bill kicked,<br/></span>
<span class="i4">Dunham kicked.<br/></span>
<span class="i0">They both kicked together,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">But Bill kicked mighty hard.<br/></span>
<span class="i4">Flash ran,<br/></span>
<span class="i4">Charlie ran,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Then Pennington lost her grip;<br/></span>
<span class="i0">She also lost the championship—<br/></span>
<span class="i4">Siss, boom, ah!<br/></span>
</div></div>
</div>
<p class="p1">After all, he could sleep late; that was something.
Then in four days the baseball squad would return,
and there would be long afternoon practices to
watch, lolling on the turf, with an occasional foul
to retrieve. He would read The Count of Monte
Cristo, and follow The Three Musketeers through a
thousand far-off adventures, and Lorna Doone,—there
was always the great John Ridd, bigger even
than Turkey or the Waladoo Bird.</p>
<p>He arrived resolutely at the Dickinson, and started
up the deserted stairs for his room. There was
only one thing he feared; he did not want Mrs.
Rogers, wife of the housemaster, to "mother"
him. Anything but that! He was glad that after
luncheon he would have to take his meals at the
Lodge. That would avert embarrassing situations,
for whatever his friends might think, he, the Great
Big Man, was a runt in stature only.</p>
<p>To express fully the excessive gaiety he enjoyed,
he tramped to his room, bawling out:</p>
<div class="block3">
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">"'Tis a jolly life we lead,<br/></span>
<span class="i0">Care and sorrow we defy."<br/></span>
</div></div>
</div>
<p class="p1">All at once a gruff voice spoke:</p>
<p>"My, what a lot of noise for a Great Big Man!"</p>
<p>The Big Man stopped thunderstruck. The voice
came from Butcher Stevens' room. Cautiously he
tiptoed down the hall and paused, with his funny
little nose and eyes peering around the door-jamb.
Sure enough, there was Butcher, and there were the
Butcher's trunks and bags. What could it mean?</p>
<p>"I say," he began, according to etiquette, "is
that you, Butcher?"</p>
<p>"Very much so, Big Man."</p>
<p>"What are you doing here?"</p>
<p>"The faculty, Big Man, desire my presence,"
said the Butcher, sarcastically. "They would like
my expert advice on a few problems that are <i>per</i>-plexing
them."</p>
<p>"Ah," said the Great Big Man, slowly. Then he
understood. The Butcher had been caught two
nights before returning by Sawtelle's window at a
very late hour. He did not know exactly the facts
because he had been told not to be too inquisitive,
and he was accustomed to obeying instructions.
Supposing the faculty should expel him! To the
Big Man such a sentence meant the end of all things,
something too horrible to contemplate. So he said,
"Oh, Butcher, is it serious?"</p>
<p>"Rather, youngster; rather, I should say."</p>
<p>"What <i>will</i> the baseball team do?" said the Big
Man, overwhelmed.</p>
<p>"That's what's worrying me," replied the crack
first-baseman, gloomily. He rose and went to the
window, where he stood beating a tattoo.</p>
<p>"You don't suppose Crazy Opdyke could cover
the bag, do you?" said the Big Man.</p>
<p>"Lord, no!"</p>
<p>"How about Stubby?"</p>
<p>"Too short."</p>
<p>"They might do something with the Waladoo."</p>
<p>"Not for first; he can't stop anything below his
knees."</p>
<p>"Then I don't see how we're going to beat Andover,
Butcher."</p>
<p>"It does look bad."</p>
<p>"Do you think the faculty will—will——"</p>
<p>"Fire me? Pretty certain, youngster."</p>
<p>"Oh, Butcher!"</p>
<p>"Trouble is, they've got the goods on me—dead
to rights."</p>
<p>"But does the Doctor know how it'll break up the
nine?"</p>
<p>Butcher laughed loudly.</p>
<p>"He doesn't <i>ap</i>-preciate that, youngster."</p>
<p>"No," said the Big Man, reflectively. "They
never do, do they?"</p>
<p>The luncheon bell rang, and they hurried down.
The Big Man was overwhelmed by the discovery.
If Butcher didn't cover first, how could they ever
beat Andover and the Princeton freshmen? Even
Hill School and Pennington might trounce them.
He fell into a brown melancholy, until suddenly he
caught the sympathetic glance of Mrs. Rogers on
him, and for fear that she would think it was due to
his own weakness, he began to chat volubly.</p>
<p>He had always been a little in awe of the Butcher.
Not that the Butcher had not been friendly; but he
was so blunt and rough and unbending that he rather
repelled intimacy. He watched him covertly, admiring
the bravado with which he pretended unconcern.
It must be awful to be threatened with expulsion
and actually to be expelled, to have your whole life
ruined, once and forever,—The Big Man's heart was
stirred. He said to himself that he had not been
sympathetic enough, and he resolved to repair the
error. So, luncheon over, he said with an appearance
of carelessness:</p>
<p>"I say, old man, come on over to the jigger-shop.
I'll set 'em up. I'm pretty flush, you know."</p>
<p>The Butcher looked down at the funny face and
saw the kindly motive under the exaggerated bluffness.
Being touched by it, he said gruffly:</p>
<p>"Well; come on, then, you old billionaire!"</p>
<p>The Big Man felt a great movement of sympathy
in him for his big comrade. He would have liked
to slip his little fist in the great brown hand and
say something appropriate, only he could think of
nothing appropriate. Then he remembered that
among men there should be no letting down, no
sentimentality. So he lounged along, squinting
up at the Butcher and trying to copy his rolling
gait.</p>
<p>At the jigger-shop, Al lifted his eyebrows in
well-informed disapproval, saying curtly:</p>
<p>"What are you doing here, you Butcher, you?"</p>
<p>"Building up my constitution," said Stevens, with
a frown. "I'm staying because I like it, of course.
Lawrenceville is just lovely at Easter: spring birds
and violets, and that sort of thing."</p>
<p>"You're a nice one," said Al, a baseball enthusiast.
"Why couldn't you behave until after the
Andover game?"</p>
<p>"Of course; but you needn't rub it in," replied
the Butcher, staring at the floor. "Give me a double
strawberry, and heave it over."</p>
<p>Al, seeing him not insensible, relented. He added
another dab to the double jigger already delivered,
and said, shoving over the glass:</p>
<p>"It's pretty hard luck on the team, Butcher.
There's no one hereabouts can hold down the bag
like you. Heard anything definite?"</p>
<p>"No."</p>
<p>"What do you think?"</p>
<p>"I'd hate to say."</p>
<p>"Is anyone doing anything?"</p>
<p>"Cap Kiefer is to see the Doctor to-night."</p>
<p>"I say, Butcher," said the Big Man, in sudden
fear, "you won't go up to Andover and play against
us, will you?"</p>
<p>"Against the school! Well, rather not!" said the
Butcher, indignantly. Then he added: "No; if they
fire me, I know what I'll do."</p>
<p>The Big Man wondered if he contemplated suicide;
that must be the natural thing to do when one is
expelled. He felt that he must keep near Butcher,
close all the day. So he made bold to wander about
with him, watching him with solicitude.</p>
<p>They stopped at Lalo's for a hot dog, and lingered
at Bill Appleby's, where the Butcher mournfully
tried the new mits and swung the bats with critical
consideration. Then feeling hungry, they trudged
up to Conover's for pancakes and syrup. Everywhere
was the same feeling of dismay; what would
become of the baseball nine? Then it suddenly
dawned upon the Big Man that no one seemed to
be sorry on the Butcher's account. He stopped with
a pancake poised on his fork, looked about to make
sure no one could hear him, and blurted out:</p>
<p>"I say, Butcher, it's not only on account of first
base, you know; I'm darn sorry for <i>you</i>, honest!"</p>
<p>"Why, you profane little cuss," said the Butcher,
frowning, "who told you to swear?"</p>
<p>"Don't make fun of me, Butcher," said the Great
Big Man, feeling very little; "I meant it."</p>
<p>"Conover," said the Butcher, loudly, "more pancakes,
and brown 'em!"</p>
<p>He, too, had been struck by the fact that in the
general mourning there had been scant attention
paid to his personal fortunes. He had prided himself
on the fact that he was not susceptible to
"feelings," that he neither gave nor asked for sympathy.
He was older than his associates, but years
had never reconciled him to Latin or Greek or, for
that matter, to mathematics in simple or aggravated
form. He had been the bully of his village out in
northern Iowa, and when a stranger came, he
trounced him first, and cemented the friendship afterward.
He liked hard knocks, give and take. He
liked the school because there was the long football
season in the autumn, with the joy of battling, with
every sinew of the body alert and the humming of
cheers indistinctly heard, as he rammed through the
yielding line. Then the spring meant long hours of
romping over the smooth diamond, cutting down impossible
hits, guarding first base like a bull-dog, pulling
down the high ones, smothering the wild throws
that came ripping along the ground, threatening to
jump up against his eyes, throws that other fellows
dodged. He was in the company of equals, of good
fighters, like Charley De Soto, Hickey, Flash Condit,
and Turkey, fellows it was a joy to fight beside.
Also, it was good to feel that four hundred-odd
wearers of the red and black put their trust in him,
and that trust became very sacred to him. He played
hard—very hard, but cleanly, because combat was
the joy of his life to him. He broke other rules, not
as a lark, but out of the same fierce desire for battle,
to seek out danger wherever he could find it. He
had been caught fair and square, and he knew that
for that particular offence there was only one punishment.
Yet he hoped against hope, suddenly realising
what it would cost him to give up the great school
where, however, he had never sought friendships or
anything beyond the admiration of his mates.</p>
<p>The sympathy of the Big Man startled him, then
made him uncomfortable. He had no intention of
crying out, and he did not like or understand the
new emotion that rose in him as he wondered when
his sentence would come.</p>
<p>"Well, youngster," he said, gruffly, "had enough?
Have another round?"</p>
<p>"I've had enough," said the Big Man, heaving a
sigh. "Let me treat, Butcher."</p>
<p>"Not to-day, youngster."</p>
<p>"Butcher, I—I'd like to. I'm awfully flush."</p>
<p>"Not to-day."</p>
<p>"Let's match for it."</p>
<p>"What!" said the Butcher, fiercely, "Don't let
me hear any more of that talk. You've got to grow
up first."</p>
<p>The Big Man, thus rebuked, acquiesced meekly.
The two strolled back to the campus in silence.</p>
<p>"Suppose we have a catch," said the Big Man,
tentatively.</p>
<p>"All right," said the Butcher, smiling.</p>
<p>Intrenched behind a gigantic mit, the Big Man
strove valorously to hold the difficult balls. After
a long period of this mitigated pleasure they sat
down to rest. Then Cap Kiefer's stocky figure appeared
around the Dickinson, and the Butcher went
off for a long, solemn consultation.</p>
<p>The Big Man, thus relieved of responsibility, felt
terribly alone. He went to his room and took down
volume two of The Count of Monte Cristo, and
stretched out on the window-seat. Somehow the
stupendous adventures failed to enthrall him. It was
still throughout the house. He caught himself listening
for the patter of Hickey's shoes above,
dancing a breakdown, or the rumble of Egghead's
laugh down the hall, or a voice calling, "Who can
lend me a pair of suspenders?"</p>
<p>And the window was empty. It seemed so
strange to look up from the printed page and find
no one in the Woodhull opposite, shaving painfully
at the window, or lolling like himself over a novel,
all the time keeping an eye on the life below. He
could not jeer at Two Inches Brown and Crazy Opdyke
practising curves, nor assure them that the
Dickinson nine would just fatten on those easy ones.
No one halloed from house to house, no voice below
drawled out:</p>
<p>"Oh, you Great <i>Big Man</i>! Stick your head out
of the window!"</p>
<p>There was no one to call across for the time o'
day, or for just a nickel to buy stamps, or for the
loan of a baseball glove, or a sweater, or a collar
button, scissors, button-hook, or fifty and one articles
that are never bought but borrowed.</p>
<p>The Great Big Man let The Count of Monte
Cristo tumble unheeded on the floor, seized a tennis
ball, and went across the campus to the esplanade
of the Upper House, where for half an hour he
bounced the ball against the rim of the ledge, a privilege
that only a fourth former may enjoy. Tiring
of this, he wandered down to the pond, where he
skimmed innumerable flat stones until he had exhausted
the attractions of this limited amusement.</p>
<p>"I—I'm getting homesick," he admitted finally.
"I wish I had a dog—something living—around."</p>
<p>At supper-time he saw the Butcher again, and
forgot his own loneliness in the concern he felt
for his big friend. He remembered that the Butcher
had said that if he were expelled he knew what he
would do. What had he meant by that? Something
terrible. He glanced up at the Butcher, and, being
very apprehensive, made bold to ask:</p>
<p>"Butcher, I say, what does Cap think?"</p>
<p>"He hasn't seen the Doctor yet," said the Butcher.
"He'll see him to-night. I guess I'll go over myself,
just to leave a calling-card accordin' to <i>et</i>-iquette!"</p>
<p>The Big Man kept his own counsel, but when the
Butcher, after dinner, disappeared through the awful
portal of Foundation House, he sat down in the
dark under a distant tree to watch. In a short five
minutes the Butcher reappeared, stood a moment
undecided on the steps, stooped, picked up a handful
of gravel, flung it into the air with a laugh, and
started along the circle.</p>
<p>"Butcher!"</p>
<p>"Hello, who's that!"</p>
<p>"It's me, Butcher," said the Big Man, slipping
his hand into the other's; "I—I wanted to know."</p>
<p>"You aren't going to get sentimental, are you,
youngster?" said Stevens, disapprovingly.</p>
<p>"Please, Butcher," said the Great Big Man,
pleadingly, "don't be cross with me! Is there any
hope?"</p>
<p>"The Doctor won't see me, young one," said the
Butcher, "but the <i>at</i>-mosphere was not encouraging."</p>
<p>"I'm sorry."</p>
<p>"Honest?"</p>
<p>"Honest."</p>
<p>"You <i>damn</i> little runt!"</p>
<p>They went hand in hand over to the chapel, where
they chose the back steps and settled down with the
great walls at their back and plenty of gravel at
their feet to fling aimlessly into the dusky night.</p>
<p>"Butcher?"</p>
<p>"Well, Big Man!"</p>
<p>"What will you do if—if they fire you?"</p>
<p>"Oh, lots of things. I'll go hunting for gold
somewhere, or strike out for South America or
Africa."</p>
<p>"Oh!" The Big Man was immensely relieved;
but he added incredulously, "Then you'll give up
football and baseball?"</p>
<p>"Looks that way."</p>
<p>"You won't mind?"</p>
<p>"Yes," said the Butcher, suddenly, "I will mind.
I'll hate to leave the old school. I'd like to have one
chance more."</p>
<p>"Why don't you tell the Doctor that?"</p>
<p>"Never! I don't cry out when I'm caught,
youngster. I take my punishment."</p>
<p>"Yes," said the Big Man, reflecting. "That's
right, I suppose; but, then, there's the team to think
of, you know."</p>
<p>They sat for a long time in silence, broken suddenly
by the Butcher's voice, not so gruff as usual.</p>
<p>"Say, Big Man—feeling sort of homesick?"</p>
<p>No answer.</p>
<p>"Just a bit?"</p>
<p>Still no answer. The Butcher looked down, and
saw the Big Man struggling desperately to hold in
the sobs.</p>
<p>"Here, none of that, youngster!" he exclaimed in
alarm. "Brace up, old man!"</p>
<p>"I—I'm all right," said the Great Big Man with
difficulty. "It's nothing."</p>
<p>The Butcher patted him on the shoulder, and then
drew his arm around the little body. The Big Man
put his head down and blubbered, just as though he
had been a little fellow, while his companion sat perplexed,
wondering what to do or say in the strange
situation.</p>
<p>"So he's a little homesick, is he?" he said lamely.</p>
<p>"N-o-o," said the Great Big Man, "not just that;
it's—it's all the fellows I miss."</p>
<p>The Butcher was silent. He, too, began to understand
that feeling; only he, in his battling pride, resisted
fiercely the weakness.</p>
<p>"You've got an uncle somewhere, haven't you,
youngster?" he said gently. "Doesn't he look after
you in vacation-time?"</p>
<p>"I don't miss <i>him</i>," replied the Big Man, shaking
his head. Then he pulled himself together and said
apologetically: "It's just being left behind that
makes me such a damned cry-baby."</p>
<p>"Youngster," said the Butcher, sternly, "your
language is <i>at</i>-rocious. Such words do not sound
well in the mouth of a suckling of your size."</p>
<p>"I didn't mean to," said the Big Man, blushing.</p>
<p>"You must leave something to grow up for, young
man," said the Butcher, profoundly. "Now tell me
about that uncle of yours. I don't fancy his
silhouette."</p>
<p>The Great Big Man, thus encouraged, poured out
his lonely starved little heart, while the Butcher
listened sympathetically, feeling a certain comfort in
sitting with his arm around a little fellow-being.
Not that he was sensible of giving much comfort;
his comments, he felt, were certainly inadequate; nor
did he measure in any way up to the situation.</p>
<p>"Now it's better, eh, Big Man?" he said at last
when the little fellow had stopped. "Does you sort
of good to talk things out."</p>
<p>"Oh, yes; thank you, Butcher."</p>
<p>"All right, then, youngster."</p>
<p>"All right. I say, you—you don't ever feel that
way, do you—homesick, I mean?"</p>
<p>"Not much."</p>
<p>"You've got a home, haven't you?"</p>
<p>"Quite too much, young one. If they fire me,
I'll keep away from there. Strike out for myself."</p>
<p>"Of course, then, it's different."</p>
<p>"Young one," said the Butcher, suddenly, "that's
not quite honest. If I have to clear out of here, it
will cut me up <i>con</i>-siderable."</p>
<p>"Honest?"</p>
<p>"A fact. I didn't know it before; but it will cut
me up to strike out and leave all this behind. I want
another chance; and do you know why?"</p>
<p>"Why?"</p>
<p>"I'd like to make friends. Oh, I haven't got any
real friends, youngster; you needn't shake your head.
It's my fault. I know it. You're the first mortal
soul who cared what became of me. All the rest are
thinking of the team."</p>
<p>"Now, Butcher——"</p>
<p>"Lord! don't think I'm crying out!" said the
Butcher, in instant alarm. "It's all been up to me.
Truth is, I've been too darned proud. But I'd like
to get another whack at it."</p>
<p>"Perhaps you will, Butcher."</p>
<p>"No, no, there's no reason why I should." The
Butcher sat solemnly a moment, flinging pebbles
down into the dark tennis courts. Suddenly he said:
"Look here, Big Man, I'm going to give you some
good advice."</p>
<p>"All right, Butcher."</p>
<p>"And I want you to tuck it away in your thinker—savez?
You're a nice kid now, a good sort, but
you've got a lot of chances for being spoiled. Don't
get fresh. Don't get a swelled head just because a
lot of the older fellows let you play around. There's
nothing so hateful in the sight of God or man as a
fresh kid."</p>
<p>"You don't think——" began the Big Man in
dismay.</p>
<p>"No; you're all right now. You're quiet, and
don't tag around, and you're a good sort, darned if
you aren't, and that's why I don't want to see you
spoiled. Now a straight question: Do you smoke?"</p>
<p>"Why, that is—well, Butcher, I did try once a
puff on Snookers' cigarette."</p>
<p>"You ought to be spanked!" said the Butcher,
angrily. "And when I get hold of Snookers, I'll
tan him. The idea of his letting you! Don't you
monkey around tobacco yet a while. First of all, it's
fresh, and second, you've got to <i>grow</i>. You want
to make a team, don't you, while you're here?"</p>
<p>"O-o-oh!" said the Great Big Man with a long
sigh.</p>
<p>"Then just stick to growing. 'Cause you've got
work cut out for you there. Now I'm not preachin';
I'm saying that you want to fill out and grow up and
do something. Harkee."</p>
<p>"All right."</p>
<p>"Cut out Snookers and that gang. Pick out the
fellows that count, as you go along, and just remember
this, if you forget the rest: if you want to put
ducks in Tabby's bed or nail down his desk, do it
because <i>you</i> want to do it, not because some other
fellow wants you to do it. D'ye hear?"</p>
<p>"Yes, Butcher."</p>
<p>"Remember that, youngster; if I'd stuck to it,
I'd kept out of a peck of trouble." He reflected a
moment and added: "Then I'd study a little. It's
not a bad thing, I guess, in the long run, and it gets
the masters on your side. And now jump up, and
we'll trot home."</p>
<p>The following night the Big Man, again under his
tree, waited for the result of the conference that was
going on inside Foundation House between the Doctor
and the Butcher and Cap Kiefer. It was long,
very long. The minutes went slowly, and it was very
dark there, with hardly a light showing in the circle
of houses that ordinarily seemed like a procession of
lighted ferry-boats. After an interminable hour,
the Butcher and Cap came out. He needed no word
to tell what their attitudes showed only too plainly:
the Butcher was expelled!</p>
<p>The Big Man waited until the two had passed into
the night, and then, with a sudden resolve, went
bravely to the doorbell and rang. Before he quite
appreciated the audacity of his act, he found himself
in the sanctum facing a much-perplexed head
master.</p>
<p>"Doctor, I—I——" The Big Man stopped, overwhelmed
by the awful majesty of the Doctor, on
whose face still sat the grimness of the past conference.</p>
<p>"Well, Joshua, what's the matter?" said the head
master, relaxing a bit before one of his favourites.</p>
<p>"Please, sir, I'm a little—a little embarrassed, I'm
afraid," said the Great Big Man, desperately.</p>
<p>"Am I so terrible as all that?" said the Doctor,
smiling.</p>
<p>"Yes, sir—you are," the Big Man replied frankly.
Then he said, plunging in, "Doctor, is the Butcher—is
Stevens—are you going to—expel him?"</p>
<p>"That is my painful duty, Joshua," said the Doctor,
frowning.</p>
<p>"Oh, Doctor," said the Big Man all in a breath,
"you don't know—you're making a mistake."</p>
<p>"I am? Why, Joshua?"</p>
<p>"Because—you don't know. Because the Butcher
won't tell you, he's too proud, sir; because he doesn't
want to cry out, sir."</p>
<p>"What do you mean exactly?" said the Doctor
in surprise. "Does Stevens know you're here?"</p>
<p>"Oh, Heavens, no, sir!" said the Big Man in horror.
"And you must never tell him, sir; that would
be too terrible."</p>
<p>"Joshua," said the Doctor, impressively, "I am
expelling Stevens because he is just the influence I
don't want boys of your age to come under."</p>
<p>"Oh, yes, sir," said the Big Man, "I know you
think that, sir; but really, Doctor, that's where you
are wrong; really you are, sir."</p>
<p>The Doctor saw there was something under the
surface, and he encouraged the little fellow to talk.
The Big Man, forgetting all fear in the seriousness
of the situation, told the listening head master all
the Butcher's conversation with him on the chapel
steps the night before—told it simply and eloquently,
with an ardour that bespoke absolute faith. Then
suddenly he stopped.</p>
<p>"That's all, sir," he said, frightened.</p>
<p>The Doctor rose and walked back and forth,
troubled and perplexed. There was no doubting the
sincerity of the recital: it was a side of Stevens he
had not guessed. Finally he turned and rested his
hand on the Big Man's shoulders.</p>
<p>"Thank you," he said; "it does put another light
on the question. I'll think it over."</p>
<p>When, ten days later, the school came trickling
home along the road from vacation, they saw, against
all hope, the Butcher holding down first base, frolicking
over the diamond in the old familiar way, and a
great shout of joy and relief went up. But how it
had happened no one ever knew, least of all Cap and
the Butcher, who had gone from Foundation House
that night in settled despair.</p>
<p>To add to Butcher's mystification, the Doctor, in
announcing his reprieve, had added:</p>
<p>"I've decided to make a change, Stevens. I'm
going to put Tibbetts in to room with you. I place
him in your charge. I'm going to try a little responsibility
on you."</p>
<div class="footnotes"><h3>FOOTNOTES:</h3>
<div class="footnote">
<p><a id="Footnote_1_1"/><a href="#FNanchor_1_1" class="pginternal"><span class="label">[1]</span></a> The "shell" is the lowest class.</p>
</div></div>
<h2> <a id="THE_POLITICAL_EDUCATION_OF_MR_BALDWIN">THE POLITICAL EDUCATION OF MR. BALDWIN</a></h2>
<hr class="full"/>
<p>If Hickey had not been woefully weak in mathematics
the famous Fed. and anti-Fed. riots would
probably never have happened. But as revolutions
turn on minor axes, Hickey, who could follow a football
like a hound, could not for the life of him trace
X, the unknown factor, through the hedges of the
simplest equation.</p>
<p>It was, therefore, with feelings of the acutest interest
that he waited, in the upper corridor of Memorial
Hall, on the opening morning of the spring
term, for the appearance of Mr. Baldwin, the new
recruit to the mathematics department. The Hall
was choked with old boys chattering over the doings
of the Easter vacation, calling back and forth,
punching one another affectionately or critically examining
the returning stragglers.</p>
<p>"His name is Ernest Garrison Baldwin," said the
Gutter Pup. "Just graduated, full of honours and
that sort of thing."</p>
<p>"He ought to be easy," said Crazy Opdyke, hopefully.</p>
<p>"These mathematical sharks are always fancy
markers," interposed Macnooder.</p>
<p>"If I'm stuck in the first row," said the Egghead
gloomily, "it's all up—I never could do anything
with figures."</p>
<p>"If we want short lessons," said Hickey, waking
out of his reverie, "we've all got to flunk in the beginning."</p>
<p>At this Machiavellian analysis there was a chorus
of assent.</p>
<p>"Sure."</p>
<p>"Hickey's the boy!"</p>
<p>"Red Dog and Poler Fox have got to be kept
down."</p>
<p>"We're not pack-horses."</p>
<p>"Say, is he green?"</p>
<p>"Sure—never taught before."</p>
<p>"Cheese it—he's coming."</p>
<p>The group stood aside, intent on the arrival of the
new adversary. They saw a stiff young man, already
bald, with a set, affable manner and a pervading
smile of cordiality, who entered the classroom
with a confident step, after a nodded:</p>
<p>"Ah, boys—good-morning."</p>
<p>The class filed in, eyeing the natural enemy closely
for the first indications of value to aid them in the
approaching conflicts.</p>
<p>"He's awfully serious," said the Egghead to his
neighbour.</p>
<p>"He'll try to drive us," replied Macnooder, with
instinctive resentment.</p>
<p>Hickey said nothing, absorbed in contemplation of
a momentous question—how would the new master
hear recitations? To solve a master's system is to
be prepared in advance, and with the exception of the
Roman's there was not a system which he had not
solved. Popular masters, like Pa Dater, called you
up every third day, which is eminently just and conducive
to a high standard of scholarship. The
Muffin Head, in stealthy craftiness, had a way of
calling you up twice in succession after you had
flunked and were expecting a brief period of immunity;
but this system once solved gave ample opportunity
to redeem yourself. The Doctor, wiser
than the rest, wrote each name on a card, shuffled the
pack and called for a recitation according to chance—but
even the Doctor left the pack on his desk, nor
counted the cards as all careful players should.
Other masters, like Tapping and Baronson, trusted
to their intuitions, seizing upon the boy whose countenance
betrayed a lurking apprehension. Hickey
took kindly to this method and had thrived amazingly,
by sudden flagrant inattentions or noticeable
gazing out of the windows, which invariably procured
him a staccato summons to recite just as the
recitation neared the limited portion he had studied.</p>
<p>So Hickey sat, examining Mr. Baldwin, and speculating
into which classification he would fall.</p>
<p>"Now, boys," said Mr. Baldwin, with an expanding
smile, "we're beginning the new term. I hope you'll
like me—I know I shall like you. I'm quite a boy
myself—quite a boy, you know. Now I'm going
ahead on a new principle. I'm going to assume that
you all take an interest in your work [the class sat
up]. I'm going to assume that you look upon life
with seriousness and purpose. I'm going to assume
that you realise the sacrifices your parents are making
to afford you an education. I'm not here as a
taskmaster. I'm here to help you, as your friend,
as your companion—as an older brother—that's it,
as an older brother. I hope our interest in one another
will not be limited to this classroom."</p>
<p>Hickey and the Egghead, who had prominently
installed themselves in the front seats, led the applause
with serious, responsive faces. Mr. Baldwin
acknowledged it, noticing pleasantly the leaders of
the demonstration.</p>
<p>Then he rapped for order and began to call the
roll, seating the boys alphabetically. He ran rapidly
through the F's, the G's and H's and, pausing, inquired:</p>
<p>"Are there any J's in the class?"</p>
<p>At this excruciatingly witty remark, which every
master annually blunders upon, the waiting class
roared in unison, while Hinsdale was forced to slap
Hickey mercilessly on the back to save him from
violent hysterics.</p>
<p>Mr. Baldwin, who suddenly perceived he had made
a pun, hastily assumed a roguish expression and allowed
a considerable moment for the laughter to die
away. The session ended in a gale of cordiality.</p>
<p>Hickey and the Egghead paid a visit that afternoon
to the Griswold, to make the new arrival feel
quite at home.</p>
<p>"Ah, boys," said Mr. Baldwin, with a wringing
hand-shake, "this is very friendly of you, very
friendly."</p>
<p>"Mr. Baldwin," said Hickey seriously, "we were
very much interested in what you said to us this
morning."</p>
<p>"Indeed," said Baldwin, gratified. "Well, that
pleases me very much. And I am glad to see that
you take me at my word, and I hope you will drop in
often. There are lots of things I want to talk over
with you."</p>
<p>"Yes, sir," said the Egghead. "It's very kind
of you."</p>
<p>"Not at all," said Baldwin, with a wave of his
hand. "My theory is that a master should be your
companion, and I have one or two ideas about education
I am anxious to have my boys interested in.
Now, for instance, take politics; what do you know
about politics?"</p>
<p>"Why, nothing," said Hickey in acquiescent surprise.</p>
<p>"And yet that is the most vital thing you will
have to face as men. Here's a great national election
approaching, and yet, I am certain not one in
four hundred of you has any clear conception of the
political system."</p>
<p>"That's so, Egghead," said Hickey, nodding impressively
at his companion. "It <i>is</i> so."</p>
<p>"I have a scheme I'm going to talk over with
you," continued Baldwin, "and I want your advice.
Sit down; make yourselves comfortable."</p>
<p>Later in the afternoon Mr. Baronson, Baldwin's
superior in the Griswold, dropped in with a friendly
inquiry. Young Mr. Baldwin was gazing out of the
window in indulgent amusement. Mr. Baronson, following
his gaze, beheld, in the far campus, Hickey
and Egghead rolling over each other like two trick
bears.</p>
<p>"Well, Baldwin, how goes it?" said Baronson
genially.</p>
<p>"Splendidly. The boys are more than friendly.
We shall get on famously."</p>
<p>"'<i>Danaos timeo et dona ferentes</i>,'" said Baronson
shrewdly.</p>
<p>"Oh——" Baldwin objected.</p>
<p>"Yes, yes—I'm an old fogy—old style," said
Baronson, cutting in, "but it's based on good scientific
researches, Baldwin. I just dropped in for
a hint or two, which you won't pay attention to—never
mind. When you've lived with the young
human animal as long as I have, you won't have any
illusions. He doesn't want to be enlightened. He
hasn't the slightest desire to be educated. He isn't
educated. He never will be. His memory simply
<i>detains</i> for a short while, a larger and larger number
of facts—Latin, Greek, history, mathematics,
it's all the same—facts, nothing but facts. He remembers
when he is compelled to, but he is supremely
bored by the performance. All he wants is to grow,
to play and to get into sufficient mischief. My dear
fellow, treat him as a splendid young savage, who
breaks a rule for the joy of matching his wits against
yours, and don't take him seriously, as you are in
danger of doing. Don't let him take you seriously
or he will lead you to a cropper."</p>
<p>Ernest Garrison Baldwin did not deign to reply—the
voice of the older generation, of course! He was
of the new, he would replace old prejudices with new
methods. There were a great many things in the
world he intended to change—among others this
whole antagonistic spirit of education. So he remained
silent, and looked very dignified.</p>
<p>Baronson studied him, saw the workings of his
mind, and smiled.</p>
<p>"Never were at boarding-school, were you?" he
asked.</p>
<p>"No," said Baldwin, drily.</p>
<p>Baronson gave a glance at the study, remarked
the advanced note in the shelves, and went to the
door.</p>
<p>"After all," he said, with his hand on the knob,
"the first year, Baldwin, we learn more than we
teach."</p>
<p>"Gee! I think it's an awful bore," said the Gutter
Pup.</p>
<p>"I don't see it either," said the Egghead.</p>
<p>"Who started it?" asked Turkey Reiter.</p>
<p>"Hickey and Elder Brother Baldwin," said the
Egghead. "Hickey's improving his stand."</p>
<p>"Hickey, boy," said Butcher Stevens, professionally,
"you're consorting with awful low company."</p>
<p>"Hickey, you are getting to be a greasy grind,"
said the Gutter Pup.</p>
<p>"I am, am I," said Hickey indignantly. "I'd
like to know if I'm not a patriot. I'd like to know
if I'm not responsible for the atmosphere of brotherly
love and the dove of peace that floats around Baldwin's
classroom. I'd like to know if I'm not responsible
for his calling us up alphabetically, regular
order, every other day, no suspicion, perfect
trust—mutual confidence. Am I right?"</p>
<p>"You are right, Hickey, you are right," said
Turkey apologetically. "The binomial theorem is
a delight and a joy, when, as you say, the master has
mutual trust in the scholar. But where in blazes,
Hickey, did you get this political shindy into your
thinker?"</p>
<p>"It's Elder Brother's theory of education," said
Hickey carefully, "<i>one</i> of his theories. Elder
Brother is very much distressed at the ignorance, the
political ignorance, of the modern boy. Brother is
right."</p>
<p>"Come off," said the Egghead, glancing at him
suspiciously, but Hickey maintained a serious face.</p>
<p>"What's up?" said Macnooder, sauntering over
to the crowd on the lawn.</p>
<p>"Hickey's fixed up a plan with Brotherly Love to
have a political campaign," said the Gutter Pup,
"and is trying to rouse our enthusiasm."</p>
<p>"A campaign here in the school, in the Lawrenceville
School, John C. Green Foundation!" said Macnooder
incredulously.</p>
<p>"The same!"</p>
<p>"No? I won't believe it. It's a dream—it's a
beautiful, satisfying dream," said Macnooder, shaking
his head. "A political campaign in school;
Hickey, my bounding boy, I see your cunning hand!"</p>
<p>"Now Doc's gone nutty," said the unimaginative
Egghead. "What the deuce do you see in it?"</p>
<p>"Hickey, you old, rambunctious, foxy, prodigious
Hickey, I knew something was brewing," said Doc,
not deigning to notice the Egghead. "You have
been quiet, most quiet of late. Hickey, how did you
do it?"</p>
<p>"Sympathy, Doc," said Hickey blandly. "I've
been most sympathetic with Elder Brother, sympathetic
and most encouraging. Sympathy is a beautiful
thing, Doc, beautiful and rare."</p>
<p>"Hickey, don't torture me with curiosity," said
Doc. "Where are we at?"</p>
<p>"At the present moment, Brother is asking the
Doctor for permission to launch the campaign, and
the sympathetic, popular and serious Hickey Hicks
is proceeding to select a preliminary conference committee."</p>
<p>"And what then?" said Turkey, with sudden interest.</p>
<p>"What then?" said Hickey. "Bonfires, parades,
stump speeches, proclamations, et cetera, et ceteray."</p>
<p>"Oh, Hickey," said the now enthusiastic Gutter
Pup, "do you think the Doctor ever will permit it?"</p>
<p>"What's the use of getting excited?" said the
Egghead contemptuously. "You don't fancy for a
moment, do you, there's a chance of fooling the
Doctor?"</p>
<p>"Sure, Egghead's right," said Butcher Stevens;
"you won't get the Doctor to bite. Baldwin is
green, but the Doctor is quite ripe, thank you!"</p>
<p>Even Macnooder looked dubiously at Hickey, who
assumed an air of superhuman wisdom and answered:</p>
<p>"I have two chances, Baldwin and the Decoy
Ducks!"</p>
<p>"The what?"</p>
<p>"Decoy Ducks; the committee that will confer to-morrow
afternoon with the Doctor."</p>
<p>Turkey emitted a long, admiring whistle.</p>
<p>"I have given the matter thought—serious
thought, as Baldwin would say," said Hickey.
"The following collection of Archangels and young
High Markers will be rounded up for the Doctor's
inspection to-morrow."</p>
<p>"As Decoy Ducks?"</p>
<p>"As Decoy Ducks, you intelligent Turkey.
High Markers: Red Dog, Poler Fox, Biddy Hampton
and Ginger Pop Rooker, Wash Simmons—the
Doctor would feed out of Wash's hand—Crazy Opdyke—he
reads Greek like Jules Verne. Everything
must be done to make this a strictly ed-u-cational
affair. Now to demonstrate that it has the sanction
of the religious element of this community the following
notorious and flagrant Archangels will qualify:
Halo Brown, Pink Rabbit, Parson Eddy, the Saphead
and the Coffee Cooler—the Doctor is real affectionate
with the Coffee Cooler."</p>
<p>"What a beoo-ti-ful bunch!" said the Gutter
Pup rapturously.</p>
<p>"It is," said Hickey, proudly; "the Doctor would
let any one of them correct his own examination
papers and raise the mark afterward on the ground
of overconscientiousness."</p>
<p>"Well, where's the fun?" said the Egghead obstinately.
"If Crazy Opdyke and that bunch is to
run the campaign, where do we come in?"</p>
<p>"There will be a small preliminary representation
of professional politicians," said Hickey, smiling,
"very small at present, limited to the handsome and
popular Hickey Hicks, who will represent the large
body of professional politicians who will be detained
at home by hard work and serious application,
but——"</p>
<p>"But what?" said Macnooder.</p>
<p>"But who will find time to ac-tively assist this
quiet, orderly campaign of education, <i>after</i> their
presence will not be misunderstood!"</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>At half-past one the next day, the Doctor, sympathetically
inclined by the enthusiastic, if inexperienced,
Mr. Baldwin, received the Decoy Ducks in his
study at Foundation House.</p>
<p>The Doctor, while interested, had not been convinced,
and had expressed a desire to know into whose
guidance the nurturing of such a tender plant had
been intrusted. As the impressive gathering defiled
before him, his instinctive caution vanished, his
glance warmed with satisfaction, and assuming the
genial and conversational attitude he reserved for
his favourites, he began:</p>
<p>"Well, boys, this appears to be a responsible gathering,
an unusually responsible one. It is gratifying
to see you approaching such subjects with serious
purpose and earnestness. It is gratifying that the
leaders of this school" (here his glance rested fondly
on Wash Simmons, Crazy Opdyke and the Coffee
Cooler, prominently placed) "that the earnest, purposeful
boys show this interest in the political welfare
of the nation. Mr. Baldwin's plan seems to me
to be a most excellent one. I am in hearty accord
with its motive. We cannot begin too soon to interest
the youth, the intelligent, serious youth of our country
in honest government and clean political methods."
(Hickey, in noble effacement by the window-seat,
here gazed dreamily over the campus to the red circle
of houses.) "Much can be accomplished from the
earnest and purposeful pursuit of this instructive experiment.
The experiment should be educational in
the largest sense; the more I study it the more worthy
it appears. I should not be surprised if your experiment
should attract the consideration of the educational
world. Mr. Baldwin, it gives me pleasure
to express to you my thanks and my gratification for
the authorship of so worthy an undertaking. I will
leave you to a discussion of the necessary details."</p>
<p>"Well, boys," said Baldwin briskly, "let me briefly
outline the plan agreed upon. The election shall be
for a school council, before which legislation affecting
the interests of the school shall come. Each of
the four forms shall elect two representatives, each
of the ten houses shall elect one representative, making
a deliberative body of eighteen. In view of the
fact that the approaching national election might
inject unnecessary bitterness if the election should
be on national issues, we have decided, on the very
excellent suggestion of Hicks, who has indeed given
many valuable suggestions" (Hickey looked preternaturally
solemn), "to have the election on a
matter of school policy, and have settled upon the
athletic finances as an issue of sufficient interest and
yet one that can be calmly and orderly discussed.
At present, the management of the athletic finances
is in the hands of selected officers from the fourth
form. The issue, then, is whether this method shall
be continued or whether a member of the faculty
shall administer the finances. I should suggest Federalists
and Anti-Federalists as names for the parties
you will form. One week will be given to campaigning
and the election will take place according to the
Australian ballot system. Now, boys, I wish you
success. You will acquire a taste for public combat
and a facility in the necessary art of politics that will
nurture in you a desire to enter public life, to take
your part in the fight for honest politics, clean methods,
independent thinking, and will make you foes
of intimidation, bribery, cheating and that demagoguery
that is the despair of our present system.
At present you may be indifferent, a little bored, perhaps,
at this experiment, but you will like it—I am
sure you will like it. I prophesy it will interest you
once you get started."</p>
<p>Hickey lingered after the meeting to explain that
the duties incident to the organising of such an important
undertaking had unfortunately deprived him
of the time necessary to prepare his advanced
algebra.</p>
<p>"Well, that is a little matter we'll overlook,
Hicks," said the enthusiast genially. "I congratulate
you on your selection, an admirable committee,
one that inspires confidence. Keep me in touch with
developments and call on me for advice at any time."</p>
<p>"Yes, indeed, sir."</p>
<p>"Good luck."</p>
<p>"Thank you, sir."</p>
<p>A half hour later Hickey announced the addition
of the following professional politicians: Tough
McCarthy, Doc Macnooder, The Triumphant Egghead,
Slugger Jones, Turkey Reiter, Cheyenne Baxter,
Jock Hasbrouck, Butcher Stevens, Rock Bemis
and Bat Greer.</p>
<p>The reinforced committee then met, divided equitably,
and having tossed for sides, announced their
organisation, as follows:</p>
<p class="p1 center pmb1">
<span class="font105">FEDERALIST PARTY</span><br/>
<span class="font09"><i>Chairman</i>: <span class="smcap">The Hon. Tough McCarthy</span></span><br/>
<span class="font09"><i>Vice-Chairman</i>: <span class="smcap">The Hon. Ginger Pop Rooker</span></span><br/>
<br/>
<span class="font105">ANTI-FEDERALIST PARTY</span><br/>
<span class="font09"><i>Chairman</i>: <span class="smcap">Hon. Cheyenne Baxter</span></span><br/>
<span class="font09"><i>Vice-Chairman</i>: <span class="smcap">Hon. Hickey Hicks</span></span><br/>
</p>
<p>The school was at first apathetic, then mildly interested.
The scheme was examined with suspicion
as perhaps being a veiled attempt of the faculty to
increase the already outrageous taxes on the mind.
It looked prosy enough at first glance—perhaps an
attempt to revive the interest in debating and so to
be fiercely resisted.</p>
<p>For an hour the great campaign for political education
hung fire and then suddenly it began to catch
on. A few leading imaginations had seen the latent
possibilities. In another hour apathy had disappeared
and every house was discussing the momentous
question whether to go Fed or Anti-Fed.</p>
<p>The executive committee of the Federalist party
met immediately, on a call from the Honourable
Cheyenne Baxter, in the Triumphant Egghead's
rooms for organisation and conference.</p>
<p>"We've got the short end of it, all right, all
right," said Butcher Stevens gloomily. "The idea
of our standing up for the faculty."</p>
<p>"That's right, Cheyenne," said Turkey, shaking
his head. "We'll be left high and dry."</p>
<p>"We won't carry any house outside the Dickinson
and the Woodhull," said Slugger Jones.</p>
<p>"I'd like to make a suggestion," said Crazy Opdyke.</p>
<p>"We've got to plan two campaigns," said Cheyenne,
"one for the election from the forms and one
for the control of the houses. Let's take up the
forms—the fourth form will go solidly against us."</p>
<p>"Sure," said Doc Macnooder, "because if we win
they lose control of the finances."</p>
<p>"I have a suggestion," said Crazy Opdyke for the
second time.</p>
<p>"Now," said Cheyenne, "we've got to make this a
matter of the school against the fourth form, and it
oughtn't to be so hard, either. Now, how're we going
to do it? First, what have we got?"</p>
<p>"The Dickinson and the Woodhull," said Hickey.</p>
<p>"Yes, we can be sure of those, but that's all.
Now, those Feds, with Jock Hasbrouck and Tough
McCarthy, will swing the Kennedy and the Griswold."</p>
<p>"The Davis House will be against us," said Macnooder,
with conviction. "They're just aching to
get back at the Dickinson."</p>
<p>"That's so," said Turkey. "They're still sore
because we won the football championship."</p>
<p>"The Davis will pull the Rouse House with it,"
said Hickey gloomily. "They're forty in the Davis
and only twelve in the Rouse. The Davis would
mangle them if they ever dared go our way."</p>
<p>"We've got to counteract that by getting the
Green," said Cheyenne. "They're only ten there,
but it makes a vote. The fight'll be in the Hamill
and the Cleve."</p>
<p>"The Cleve is sore on us," said Turkey of the
Dickinson, "because we swiped the ice cream last year
for their commencement dinner."</p>
<p>"I've got an idea," said Crazy Opdyke, trying to
be heard.</p>
<p>"Shut up, Crazy," said Doc. "You've served
your purpose; you're a Decoy Duck and nothing
else."</p>
<p>"Harmony!" said Cheyenne warningly. "The
way to get the Green is to give Butsey White, down
there, the nomination from the second form, if he'll
swing the house."</p>
<p>"And put up Bronc Andrews in the Hamill,"
added Macnooder.</p>
<p>"Where do I come in?" said Crazy Opdyke, who
had aspirations.</p>
<p>"You subordinate yourself to the success of your
party," said Cheyenne.</p>
<p>"The devil I do," said Opdyke. "If you think
I'm a negro delegate, you've got another thing coming.
I may be a Decoy Duck, but either I'm made
chairman of a Finance Committee or I lead a bolt
right out of this convention."</p>
<p>"A Finance Committee?" said Butcher Stevens,
mystified.</p>
<p>"Sure," said Cheyenne Baxter. "That's most
important."</p>
<p>"I'll take that myself, then," said Macnooder aggressively.
"I'd like to know what claim Crazy's
got to a position of trust and responsibility."</p>
<p>"Claim or no claim," said Opdyke, pulling his
hat over his eyes and tilting back, "either I handle
the funds of this here campaign or the Anti-Federalist
party begins to split."</p>
<p>"Shall a half-plucked rooster from the Cleve
House hold up this convention?" said Wash Simmons
militantly. "If we're going to be black-jacked
by every squid that comes down the road, <i>I'm</i> going
to get out."</p>
<p>"I have spoken," said Crazy.</p>
<p>"So have I."</p>
<p>"Gentlemen, gentlemen," protested the Honourable
Cheyenne Baxter, "we must have harmony."</p>
<p>"Rats!" said Opdyke. "I demand a vote."</p>
<p>"I insist upon it," said Wash.</p>
<p>The vote was taken and Macnooder was declared
chairman of the Finance Committee. Crazy Opdyke
arose and made them a profound bow.</p>
<p>"Gentlemen, I have the honour of bidding you
farewell," he said, loftily. "The voice of freedom
has been stifled. This great party is in the hands of
commercial interests and private privilege. This is
nothing but a Dickinson House sinecure. I retire, I
withdraw, I shake the dust from my feet. I depart,
but I shall not sleep, I shall not rest, I shall neither
forget nor forgive. Remember, gentlemen of the
Anti-Federalist party, this hour, and when in the
stillness of the night you hear the swish of the
poisoned arrow, the swirl of the tomahawk, the thud
of the secret stone, pause and say to yourself, 'Crazy
Opdyke done it!'"</p>
<p>"It is unfortunate," said Cheyenne, when Crazy
had departed, "most unfortunate, but that's politics."</p>
<p>"Crazy has no influence," said Wash, contemptuously.</p>
<p>"He has our secrets," said Cheyenne gloomily.</p>
<p>"Let's get to work," said Macnooder. "You can
bet Tough McCarthy's on the job; his father's an
alderman."</p>
<p>At six o'clock the campaign was off with a rush.
At seven the head master, all unsuspecting, stepped
out from Foundation House, cast one fond glance at
the familiar school, reposing peacefully in the twilight,
and departed to carry the message of increased
liberty in primary education to a waiting
conference at Boston. Shortly after, a delegation of
the school faculty, who had just learned of the
prospective campaign, hurried over in amazed, indignant
and incredulous protest. They missed the head
master by ten minutes—but ten minutes make
history.</p>
<p>"Jiminy crickets!"</p>
<p>"Suffering Moses!"</p>
<p>"Call Hickey!"</p>
<p>"Tell Hickey!"</p>
<p>"Hickey, stick your head out of the window!"</p>
<p>Hickey, slumbering peacefully, in that choicest
period between the rising bell and breakfast, leaped
to the middle of the floor at the uproar that suddenly
resounded through the Dickinson.</p>
<p>He thrust his head out of the window and beheld
from the upper stories of the Griswold an immense
white sheet sagging in the breeze, displaying in
crude red-flannel letters the following device:</p>
<p class="p1 center pmb1">
<span class="font105">NO APRON-STRINGS FOR US<br/></span>
<span class="font105">THE FEDERAL PARTY<br/></span>
<span class="font105">WILL FIGHT TO THE END<br/></span>
<span class="font105">FACULTY USURPATION<br/></span>
</p>
<p>Hardly had his blinking eyes become accustomed
to the sight when a fresh uproar broke out on the
other side of the Dickinson.</p>
<p>"Hully Gee!"</p>
<p>"Look at the Kennedy!"</p>
<p>"Great cats and little kittens!"</p>
<p>"Snakes alive!"</p>
<p>"Look at the Kennedy, will you!"</p>
<p>"Hickey, oh you, Hickey!"</p>
<p>At the sound of Macnooder's voice in distress,
Hickey realised the situation was serious and rushed
across the hall. He found Macnooder with stern and
belligerent gaze fixed out of the window. From the
Kennedy House another banner insolently displayed
this amazing proclamation:</p>
<p class="p1 center pmb1">
<span class="font105">DOWN WITH THE GOO-GOOS<br/></span>
<span class="font105">LAWRENCEVILLE SHALL NOT BE<br/></span>
<span class="font105">A KINDERGARTEN.<br/></span>
<span class="font105">RALLY TO THE FEDERALISTS AND<br/></span>
<span class="font105">DOWN THE DICKINSON GOO-GOOS<br/></span>
</p>
<p>Hickey looked at Macnooder. Macnooder looked
at Hickey.</p>
<p>"Goo-Goo," said Hickey, grieved.</p>
<p>"Goo-Goo," repeated Doc sadly. "Goo-Goo
and Apron-strings. Hickey, my boy, we have got
to be up and doing."</p>
<p>"Doc," said Hickey, "that's Tough McCarthy's
work. We never ought to have let him get away
from us."</p>
<p>"Hickey, we must nail the lie," said Doc solemnly.</p>
<p>"The Executive Committee of the Anti-Fed party
will meet in my rooms," said Hickey determinedly,
"directly after first recitation. We have been
caught napping by a gang of ballot stuffers, but we
will come back—Doc, we <i>will</i> come back!"</p>
<p>The Executive Committee met with stern and
angry resolve, like battling football players between
the halves of a desperate game.</p>
<p>"Fellows," said Hickey, "while we have slept
the enemy has been busy. We are muts, and the
original pie-faced mut is yours truly."</p>
<p>"No, Hickey, if there's going to be a competition
for muts," said Cheyenne Baxter, "I'm the blue ribbon."</p>
<p>"Before we bestow any more bouquets," said Macnooder
sarcastically, "let's examine the situation.
Let's see the worst. The Feds have the jump on us.
They've raised the cry of 'Apron-strings' on us, and
it's going to be a mighty hard one to meet."</p>
<p>"We'll never answer it," said the gloomy Egghead;
"we're beaten now. It's a rotten issue and a
rotten game."</p>
<p>At this moment the Gutter Pup rushed in like a
white fuzzy dog, his eyes bulging with importance
as he delivered the bombshell, that Crazy Opdyke
had organised a Mugwump party and carried the
Cleve House for it.</p>
<p>"No."</p>
<p>"A Mugwump party!"</p>
<p>"What the deuce is he up to?"</p>
<p>"Order," said Hickey, stilling the tumult with a
shoe vigorously applied to a wash-basin. "This
meeting is not a bunch of undertakers. We are here
to save the party."</p>
<p>"Hickey's right," said Turkey; "let's get down
to business."</p>
<p>"First," said Hickey, "let's have reports. What
has Treasurer Macnooder to report?"</p>
<p>The Mark Hanna of the campaign rose, tightened
his belt, adjusted his glasses, and announced amid
cheers that the Finance Committee had to report
sixty-two dollars and forty cents in promissory notes,
twelve dollars and thirty-eight cents in cash, three
tennis rackets, two jerseys, one dozen caps, a bull's-eye
lantern (loaned) and a Flobert rifle.</p>
<p>"We can always have a banquet, even if we're
beaten," said the Triumphant Egghead. The gloom
began to dissipate.</p>
<p>"What has the Honourable Gutter Pup to report?"
said Cheyenne Baxter.</p>
<p>The Rocky Mountain Gazelle proudly announced
the establishment of a thorough system of espionage,
through the corrupting of Mr. Klondike Jackson,
the coloured gentleman who waited on the table at the
Kennedy, and Mr. Alcibiades Bonaparte, who shook
up the beds at the Griswold. He likewise reported
that young Muskrat Foster, who was not overpopular
at the Davis House, had perceived the great
truths of Anti-Federalism. He then presented a bill
of two dollars and forty-five cents for the corrupting
of the Messrs. Jackson and Bonaparte, with an addition
of fifty cents for the further contaminating
of young Muskrat Foster.</p>
<p>"The Honourable Wash Simmons will report,"
said Cheyenne Baxter.</p>
<p>"Fellows," said Wash, "I ain't no silver-tongued
orator, and all I've got to say is that Butsey White,
down at the Green House, is most sensible to the
honour of representing this great and glorious party
of moral ideas, as congressman from the second
form, but——"</p>
<p>"But what?" said Slugger Jones.</p>
<p>"But he kind of fears that the other members of
the Green House aren't quite up on Anti-Federalism,
and he reckons it will take quite a little literature
to educate them."</p>
<p>"Literature?" said Cheyenne, mystified.</p>
<p>"About eight volumes," said Wash. "Eight
green-backed pieces of <i>literature</i>!"</p>
<p>"The robber!"</p>
<p>"Why, that's corruption."</p>
<p>"Gentlemen," said Cheyenne, rapping for order,
"the question is, does he get the literature? Ayes
or noes."</p>
<p>"I protest," interrupted Hickey. "Remember,
gents, this is a campaign for clean politics. We
will not buy votes, no! we will only encourage local
enterprises. The Green is trying to fit themselves
out for the baseball season. I suggest contributing
toward a catcher's mit and a mask, and letting it go
at that."</p>
<p>On the announcement of a unanimous vote, the
Honourable Wash Simmons departed to encourage
local enterprises.</p>
<p>"And now, fellows," said Hickey, "we come to
the serious proposition—the real business of the
meeting. We have got to treat with Crazy Opdyke."</p>
<p>"Never!"</p>
<p>"Macnooder must sacrifice himself," said Hickey.
"Am I right, Cheyenne?"</p>
<p>"You are," said Cheyenne. "The campaign has
reached a serious stage. The Upper, the Kennedy,
the Griswold, the Davis, are already Fed; the Rouse
will go next. Even if we get the Green, we're lost
if the Cleve goes against us, and Crazy is just holding
out to make terms."</p>
<p>"We have misjudged Crazy," said Hickey; "his
record was against him, but we have misjudged him.
He's been the only live one in the bunch. Now we've
got to meet his terms."</p>
<p>The door opened and Crazy Opdyke sauntered in.</p>
<p>"Hello, fellows," he drawled. "How's the campaign
going? Are you satisfied with your progress?"
He stretched languidly into an armchair.
"Am I still welcome in the home of great moral
ideas?"</p>
<p>"Crazy, our feelings for you are both of sorrow
and of affection," said Cheyenne, conciliatingly.
"You certainly are a boss politician. What's this
new wrinkle of yours over in the Cleve?"</p>
<p>"I've been amusing myself," said Crazy with a
drawl, "organising the Mugwumps, the intelligent
and independent vote, the balance of power, you know,
the party that doesn't heel to any boss, but votes
according to its, to its——"</p>
<p>"To its what, Crazy?" said Hickey, gently.</p>
<p>"To its conscience," replied Crazy firmly. "To
its conscience, when its conscience is intelligently
approached."</p>
<p>"Oh, you're for sale, are you?" said Turkey
aggressively.</p>
<p>"No, Turkey, no-o-o! And yet we've organised
the Blocks of Five Marching Club; rather significant,
eh?"</p>
<p>"Well, what's your game; what have you come
for?"</p>
<p>"Oh, just to be friendly," said Crazy, rising
languidly.</p>
<p>"Stop," said Hickey. "Sit down. Let's have
a few words."</p>
<p>Crazy slouched back, sunk into the armchair and
assumed a listening position.</p>
<p>"Crazy," said Hickey, "we've made a mistake.
We didn't know you. You are the surprise of the
campaign. We apologise. We are merely amateurs;
you are the only original, professional politician."</p>
<p>"This is very gratifying," said Crazy, without a
blush.</p>
<p>"Crazy, from this moment," said Hickey, firmly,
"you are the treasurer of the Campaign Committee,
and we're listening for any words of wisdom you
have ready to uncork."</p>
<p>"No, Hickey, no," said Crazy, rising amid general
dismay, "I no longer hanker to be a treasurer.
It was just a passing fancy. Independence is better
and more profitable; I appreciate your kind offer,
I do appreciate it, Hickey, but I'm a Mugwump; I
couldn't wear a dog-collar, I couldn't!"</p>
<p>"Sit down again, Crazy," said Hickey, persuasively;
"sit down. It's a pleasure to talk with
you. You're right; your independent and intelligent
nature would be thrown away in a matter of
books and figures. We've been looking round for a
fearless, upright, popular and eloquent figure to
stand for the Cleve, and, Crazy, we're just aching to
have you step up into the frame."</p>
<p>"Hickey, you mistake me, you mistake me and
my motives," said Crazy, sadly. "My soul does not
hanker for personal glorification or the flattery of
the multitude. I'm a child of nature, Hickey, and
my ambitions are few and simple."</p>
<p>"It's right to have ambitions, Crazy," said
Hickey, soothingly, "and they don't need to be few
or simple. We regret that we cannot honour your
eminent qualities as we wish to, but we still have
hopes, Crazy, that we may have the benefit of your
guiding hand."</p>
<p>"Guiding hand?" said Crazy, looking at the
ceiling.</p>
<p>"Exactly," said Hickey, magnanimously; "in
fact, I realise how unworthy I am to fill the great
position of trust and responsibility of vice-chairman
of this committee, and I long to see it in the
hands——"</p>
<p>"I thought you said guiding hand," said Crazy,
interrupting.</p>
<p>The assembled committee looked in amazement at
Crazy. Then the storm broke out.</p>
<p>"Why, you insolent, impudent pup!"</p>
<p>"Do you think we'll make you chairman?"</p>
<p>"Kick him out!"</p>
<p>"Rough-house!"</p>
<p>"Order!" cried Cheyenne. "Crazy, out with it.
You want to be chairman, don't you?"</p>
<p>"Have I made any demands?" said Crazy, coolly.</p>
<p>"Come now—yes or no!"</p>
<p>"Are you handing it to me?"</p>
<p>A fresh storm of indignation was interrupted by
the sudden tumultuous reappearance of Wash Simmons,
shouting:</p>
<p>"Fellows, Butsey White and the Green have sold
out to the Mugwumps!"</p>
<p>Crazy Opdyke sat down again.</p>
<p>A long silence succeeded. Then Cheyenne Baxter,
mutely interrogating every glance, rose and said:</p>
<p>"Crazy, you win. The chairmanship is yours.
Will you take it on a silver platter or with a bouquet
of roses?"</p>
<p>That evening, when Hickey went to report to
Ernest Garrison Baldwin, he found that civic reformer
in a somewhat perturbed condition.</p>
<p>"I'm afraid, Hicks," he said dubiously, "that
the campaign is getting a wrong emphasis. It seems
to me that those Federalist banners are not only in
questionable taste, but show a frivolous and trifling
attitude toward this great opportunity."</p>
<p>"It's just the humour of the campaign, sir,"
said Hickey reassuringly; "I wouldn't take them
seriously."</p>
<p>"Another thing, Hicks; I'm rather surprised
that the management of the campaign does not seem
to be in the hands of the very representative committee
you originally selected."</p>
<p>"Yes, sir," said Hickey; "we realise that; but
we're making a change in our party at least which
will please you. Opdyke is going to take control."</p>
<p>"Indeed! That is reassuring; that is a guarantee
on your side, at least, of a dignified, honourable
canvass."</p>
<p>"Oh, yes, sir," said Hickey.</p>
<p>He left gravely and scampered across the campus.
Suddenly from the Woodhull Toots Cortell's trumpet
squeaked out. At the same moment the first Anti-Fed
banner was flung out, thus conceived:</p>
<p class="p1 center pmb1">
<span class="font105">TURN THE ROBBERS OUT</span><br/>
<span class="font105">NO MORE GRAFTING</span><br/>
<span class="font105">NO MORE GOUGING THE UNDER FORMERS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">FACULTY SUPERVISION MEANS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">SAVING TO THE POCKET</span><br/>
<span class="font105">OUT WITH THE BLACKMAILERS</span><br/>
</p>
<p>The astute and professional hand of the Honourable
Crazy Opdyke was felt at once. The Anti-Fed
party, while still advocating faculty control of the
athletic finances for purposes of efficiency and economy,
now shifted the ground by a series of brilliant
strokes.</p>
<p>The third day of the campaign had hardly opened
when the four fusion houses displayed prominently
the following proclamation:</p>
<p class="center">
<span class="font105">ECONOMY AND JIGGERS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">FACULTY MANAGEMENT OF THE FINANCES</span><br/>
<span class="font105">MEANS RIGID ECONOMY</span><br/>
<span class="font105">PROTECTION OF THE WEAK</span><br/>
<span class="font105">FROM THE TYRANNY OF THE TAX GATHERER</span><br/>
<span class="font105">EQUITABLE PRO-RATA</span><br/>
<span class="font105">LEVYING OF CONTRIBUTIONS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">ECONOMY MEANS MORE JIGGERS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">MORE JIGGERS MEANS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">MORE HAPPINESS FOR THE GREATER NUMBER</span><br/>
<span class="font105">VOTE FOR THE FATTER POCKETBOOK</span><br/>
</p>
<p class="p1 pmb1">Hardly had this argument to the universal appetite
been posted before the Feds retorted by posting
a proclamation:</p>
<p class="center font105 pmb1">FACULTY PLOT</p>
<p class="center">
<span class="font105">EVIDENCE IS PILING UP THAT THE</span><br/>
<span class="font105">PRESENT POLITICAL CAMPAIGN IS A</span><br/>
<span class="font105">HUGE FACULTY CONSPIRACY TO DEPRIVE</span><br/>
<span class="font105">THE SCHOOL OF ITS LIBERTIES</span><br/>
<span class="font105">BY UNDERGROUND DARK-LANTERN</span><br/>
<span class="font105">METHODS, WHERE IT DOES NOT DARE</span><br/>
<span class="font105">TO ATTEMPT IT OPENLY</span><br/>
<span class="font105">THE APRON-STRINGS ARE IN POSSESSION</span><br/>
<span class="font105">OF A GIGANTIC CORRUPTION</span><br/>
<span class="font105">FUND     WHO IS PUTTING UP?</span><br/>
</p>
<p>When this attack became public the Anti-Feds were
in deep deliberation, planning a descent on the
Hamill House. The news of the outrageous charge
was borne to the conference by Hungry Smeed, with
tears in his eyes.</p>
<p>"Crazy," said Doc, "we must meet the charge,
now, at once."</p>
<p>There was a chorus of assent.</p>
<p>"We will," said Crazy, diving into his pocket
and producing a wad of paper. "This is what I've
had up my sleeve from the beginning. This is the
greatest state paper ever conceived."</p>
<p>"Let's have it," said Hickey, and Crazy proudly
read:</p>
<p class="center font105 pmb1">THE FULL PROGRAMME</p>
<blockquote><div>
<p>The Campaign of Slander and Vilification Instituted
by Tough McCarthy and His Myrmidons Will Not Deceive
the Intelligent and Independent Voter. Anti-Federalist
Candidates Only Are the Defendants of the Liberties
of the School.</p>
<p>Anti-Fed. Candidates Stand Solemnly Pledged to Work
For Increased Privileges.</p>
</div></blockquote>
<p class="p1 center pmb1">
<span class="font105">ACCESS TO THE JIGGER-SHOP AT ALL TIMES</span><br/>
<span class="font105">REMOVING THE LIMIT ON WEEKLY ALLOWANCES</span><br/>
<span class="font105">ABOLITION OF THE HATEFUL COMPULSORY</span><br/>
<span class="font105">BATH SYSTEM</span><br/>
<span class="font105">BETTER FOOD            MORE FOOD</span><br/>
<span class="font105">REGULATION OF SINKERS AND SCRAG-BIRDS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">ESTABLISHMENT OF TWO SLEIGHING HOLIDAYS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">CUSHIONED SEATS FOR CHAPEL</span><br/>
</p>
<p>When this momentous declaration of principles was
read there was an appalled silence, while Crazy, in
the centre of the admiring circle, grew perceptibly.</p>
<p>Then a shriek burst out and Crazy was smothered
in the arms of the regenerated Anti-Feds.</p>
<p>"Crazy will be President of the United States,"
said Turkey admiringly.</p>
<p>"Wonderful!"</p>
<p>"The bathroom plank will win us fifty votes."</p>
<p>"And what about the jigger vote?"</p>
<p>At this moment an egg passed rapidly through
the open window and spread itself on the wall, while
across the campus the figure of Mucker Reilly of the
Kennedy was seen zigzagging for safety, with his
thumb vulgarly applied to his nose.</p>
<p>The Executive Committee gazed at the wall,
watching the yellow desecration gradually trickling
into a map of South America.</p>
<p>"This means the end of argument," said Cheyenne
sadly. "The campaign from now on will be
bitter."</p>
<p>"If the appeal to force is going to be made,"
said Crazy, applying a towel, "we shall endeavour—Doc,
shut the window—we shall endeavour to
meet it."</p>
<p>"We have now a chance," said Egghead, brightening,
"to prove that we are not Goo-Goos."</p>
<p>"Egghead, you are both intelligent and comforting,"
said Hickey. "The first thing is to corner
the egg market."</p>
<p>"The Finance Committee," said Crazy wrathfully,
"is empowered to buy, beg or borrow every egg,
every squashy apple, every mushy tomato that can be
detected and run down. From now on we shall wage
a vigorous campaign."</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>The publication of the Anti-Fed programme
roused the party cohorts to cheers and song. The
panicky Feds strove desperately to turn the tide with
the following warning:</p>
<p class="center">
<span class="font105">HA! HA!</span><br/>
<span class="font105">IT WON'T DO!</span><br/>
<span class="font105">WE KNOW THE HAND!</span><br/>
</p>
<blockquote><div>
<p>Don't Be Deceived. Hickey is the Sheep in Wolf's
Clothing. Stung to the Quick by Our Detection of the
Criminal Alliance Between the Anti-Feds and the Faculty,
Hickey, the King of the Goo-Goos, is Trying to Bleat Like
a Wolf. It Won't Do! They Cannot Dodge the Issue.
Stand Firm. Lawrenceville Must Not Be Made Into a
Kindergarten.</p></div></blockquote>
<p class="p1">But this could not stem the rising wave. The
Hamill House turned its back on Federalism and
threw in its lot with the foes of compulsory bath.
Just before supper the Anti-Feds were roused to
frenzy by the astounding news that the little Rouse
House, isolated though it was from the rest of the
school and under the very wing of the Davis, had
declared Anti-Fed, for the love of combat that
burned in its heroic band led by the redoubtable
Charley De Soto and Scrapper Morrissey.</p>
<p>With the declaration of the different houses the
first stage of the campaign ended. By supper every
house was on a military footing and the dove of
peace was hastening toward the horizon.</p>
<p>That night Mr. Baldwin waited in vain for the
report of Hickey, waited and wondered. For the
first time Baldwin, the enthusiast, began to be a
little apprehensive of the forces he had unchained.</p>
<p>A little later Mr. Baronson chose to pay him a
visit.</p>
<p>"Well, Baldwin, what news?" he said, drily.
"Thoroughly satisfied with your new course in
political education?"</p>
<p>"Why, the boys seem to take to it with enthusiasm,"
said Baldwin rather dubiously. "I think
they're thoroughly interested."</p>
<p>"Interested? Yes—quite so. By the way, Baldwin,"
Baronson stopped a moment and scanned his
young subordinate with pitying knowledge, "I'm
going to retire for the night. If I had a cyclone
cellar I'd move to it. I put you in charge of the
house. If any attempt is made to set it on fire or
dynamite it, go out and argue gently with the boys,
and above all, impress upon them that they are the
hope of the country and must set a standard. Reason
with them, Baldwin, and above all, appeal to
their better natures. Good-night."</p>
<p>Baldwin did not answer. He stood meditatively
gazing out the window. From the Dickinson and
the Kennedy magic lanterns were flashing campaign
slogans on white sheets suspended at opposite houses.
The uproar of cat-calls and hoots that accompanied
the exhibitions left small reason to hope that they
were couched in that clear, reasoning style which
would uplift future American politics.</p>
<p>As he looked, from the Upper House the indignant
and now thoroughly aroused fourth form started
to parade with torch-lights and transparencies.
Presently the winding procession, clothed in super-imposed
night shirts, arrived with hideous clamour.
Dangling from a pole were two grotesque figures
stuffed with straw and decked with aprons; overhead
was the inscription, "Kings of the Goo-Goos,"
and one was labelled Hickey and one was labelled
Brother. Opposite his window they halted and
chanted in soft unison:</p>
<div class="block3">
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i10">Hush, hush, tread softly,<br/></span>
<span class="i10">Hush, hush, make no noise,<br/></span>
<span class="i10">Baldwin is the King of the Goo-Goos,<br/></span>
<span class="i10">Let him sleep,<br/></span>
<span class="i10">Let him sleep.<br/></span>
<span class="i1">Shouted: LET HIM SLEEP!!!<br/></span>
</div></div>
</div>
<p class="p1 pmb1">Then the transparencies succeeded one another,
bobbing over the rolling current of indignant seniors.</p>
<p class="center">
<span class="font105">BACK TO THE KINDERGARTEN!<br/></span>
<span class="font105">WE WANT NO BROTHERLY LOVE!<br/></span>
<span class="font105">GOOD-BYE, BALDWIN! GOOD-BYE!<br/></span>
</p>
<p class="p1">Baldwin drew down the shade and stepped from
the window. He heard a familiar step in the corridor,
and quickly locked the door. Baronson
knocked; then he knocked again; after which he
moved away, chuckling.</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>When the fourth form procession arrived on its
tour around the circle the Dickinsonians were prepared
to welcome it. Crazy Opdyke, head of the
literary bureau, stood by the lantern directing the
proclamations to be flashed on the sheet that hung
from the opposite house.</p>
<p>Hickey and Macnooder posted the orators at
strategic windows, supplying them with compressed
arguments in the form of eggs and soft apples.</p>
<p>"All ready?" said Opdyke as Hickey returned,
chuckling.</p>
<p>"Ready and willing," said Hickey.</p>
<p>"Here they come," said the Big Man.</p>
<p>"Is the Kennedy and the Woodhull with them?"
asked Hickey.</p>
<p>"Sure, they're trailing on behind," said Turkey.</p>
<p>A yell of defiance burst from the head of the procession
as it reached the headquarters of the enemy.</p>
<p>"Start the literature," said Crazy.</p>
<p>Egghead, at the lantern, slipped in the first slides,
flashing them on the opposite sheet.</p>
<p class="center">
<span class="font105">IT'S ALL OVER, BOYS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">FEDERALISM IS IN THE SOUP</span><br/>
<span class="font105">FEDERALISTS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">THE UPPER HOUSE MYRMIDONS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">THE DAVIS JAYHAWKERS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">THE WOODHULL SORE HEADS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">THE KENNEDY MUCKERS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">ANTI-FEDERALISTS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">THE ROUSE INVINCIBLES</span><br/>
<span class="font105">THE CLEVE INDEPENDENTS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">THE GRISWOLD INTELLECTUALS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">THE GREEN MUGWUMPS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">THE DICKINSON SCHOLARS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">THE HAMILL MISSIONARIES</span><br/>
<span class="font105">GOOD-BYE, FEDS! GOOD-BYE!</span><br/>
</p>
<p class="p1">"Now for a few personal references," said Crazy,
smiling happily at the howls that greeted his first
effort. "Egghead, shove them right along."</p>
<p>Another series was put forth:</p>
<p class="center">
<span class="font105">WHY, WOODHULL, DID WE STEAL</span><br/>
<span class="font105">YOUR ICE CREAM?</span><br/>
<span class="font105">IS TOUGH MCCARTHY'S GANG OF</span><br/>
<span class="font105">BALLOT-STUFFERS WITH YOU?</span><br/>
<span class="font105">WE ARE NOT FOURTH-FORM PUPPY</span><br/>
<span class="font105">DOGS</span><br/>
<span class="font105">HELLO, TOUGH, HOW DOES IT FEEL TO</span><br/>
<span class="font105">BE A PUPPY DOG?</span><br/>
</p>
<p class="p1">"What are they shouting now?" said Hickey,
peering over at the turbulent chaos below.</p>
<p>"They are re-questing us to come out!" said the
Egghead.</p>
<p>The night was filled with the shrieks of the helpless
Feds.</p>
<p>"Come out!"</p>
<p>"We dare you to come out!"</p>
<p>"Come out, you Dickinson Goo-Goos."</p>
<p>"Why, they're really getting excited," said
Hickey. "They're hopping right up and down."</p>
<p>"We will give them a declaration of principles,"
said Crazy. "Egghead, give them the principles;
Hickey, notify the orators to prepare the compressed
arguments. The word is 'BIFF.'"</p>
<p>Hickey went tumbling upstairs; the Egghead delivered
the new series.</p>
<p class="center">
<span class="font105">WHY, FEDS, DON'T GET PEEVISH</span><br/>
<span class="font105">THIS IS AN ORDERLY CAMPAIGN</span><br/>
<span class="font105">A QUIET, ORDERLY CAMPAIGN</span><br/>
<span class="font105">REMEMBER, WE MUST UPLIFT THE</span><br/>
<span class="font105">NATION</span><br/>
</p>
<p class="p1 pmb1">Outside, the chorus of hoots and cat-calls gave way
to a steady rhythmic chant:</p>
<p class="center font105">
GOO-GOOS, GOO-GOOS, GOO-GOOS!<br/>
</p>
<p class="p1">"How unjust!" said Crazy, sadly. "We must
clear ourselves; we must nail the lie—in a quiet,
orderly way! Let her go, Egghead; Cheyenne, give
Hickey the cue."</p>
<p>On the sheet suddenly flashed out:</p>
<p class="center"><span class="font105">
WE ARE GOO-GOOS, ARE WE?</span>  <span class="font15"><b>BIFF!</b></span><br/>
</p>
<p class="p1">At the same moment, from a dozen windows
descended a terrific broadside of middle-aged eggs, assorted
vegetables and squashy fruit.</p>
<p>The Federalist forces, utterly off their guard,
dripping with egg and tomato, vanished like a heap
of leaves before a whirlwind, while from the Anti-Federalist
houses exultant shrieks of victory burst
forth.</p>
<p>"If we are to be called Goo-Goos," said Crazy,
proudly, "we have, at least, made Goo-Goo a term of
honour."</p>
<p>"To-morrow should be a very critical day in the
campaign," said Macnooder, pensively.</p>
<p>"I suggest that on account of the uncertain state
of the weather," said Hickey, wisely, "all window-blinds
should be closed and locked."</p>
<p>"I think," said Cheyenne, "that we had better
march to chapel in close formation."</p>
<p>"Are there any more arguments left?" said
Crazy.</p>
<p>"Quite a number."</p>
<p>"They must be delivered to-night," said Crazy,
firmly. "No egg shall be allowed to spoil—in this
house."</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>At eleven o'clock that night, as the head master sat
in his room in distant Boston, giving the last touches
to the address which he had prepared for the following
day on the "Experiment of Self-Government
and Increased Individual Responsibility in Primary
Education," the following telegram was handed to
him:</p>
<blockquote><div>
<p>Come back instantly. School in state of anarchy.
Rioting and pillaging unchecked. Another day may be
too late. Baldwin's course in political education.</p>
<p>
<span class="smcap">Baronson.</span><br/>
</p></div></blockquote>
<p>When the Doctor, after a night's precipitous
travel, drove on to the campus he had left picturesque
and peaceful but a few days before, he could hardly
believe his eyes. The circle of houses was stained
and spotted with the marks of hundreds of eggs and
the softer vegetables. From almost every upper
window a banner (often ripped to shreds) or a mutilated
proclamation was displayed. Proclamations
blossomed on every tree, couched in vitriolic language.
Two large groups of embattled boys, bearing
strange banners, were converging across the
campus, with haggard, hysterical faces, fists clenched
and muscles strung in nervous tension, waiting the
shock of the approaching clash.</p>
<p>The Doctor sprang from the buggy and advanced
toward chapel with determined, angry strides. At
the sight of the familiar figure a swift change went
over the two armies, on the point of flying at each
other's throats. The most bloodthirsty suddenly
quailed, the most martial scowls gave place to looks
of innocence. In the twinkling of an eye every banner
had disappeared, and the two armies, breaking
formation, went meekly and fearfully into chapel.</p>
<p>The Doctor from his rostrum looked down upon
the school. Under his fierce examination every
glance fell to the hymn-book.</p>
<p>"Young gentlemen of the Lawrenceville School, I
will say just one word," began the head master.
"This political campaign will <span class="smcap">Stop</span>, NOW, <i>AT
ONCE</i>!" He paused at the spectacle of row on
row of blooming eyes and gory features, and, despite
himself, his lips twitched.</p>
<p>In an instant the first ranks began to titter, then a
roar of laughter went up from the pent-up, hysterical
boys. They laughed until they sobbed, for the
first time aware of the ridiculousness of the situation.
Then as the Doctor, wisely refraining from further
discourse, dismissed them, they swayed out on the
campus where the Davis fell into the arms of the
Dickinson, and Fed and Anti-Fed rolled with laughter
on the ground.</p>
<p>When Hickey, that afternoon, brazenly sought out
Mr. Baldwin, a certain staccato note in the greeting
caused a dozen careful phrases to die on his tongue.</p>
<p>"Don't hesitate, Hicks," said Baldwin, smiling
coldly.</p>
<p>"I came, sir," said Hicks, looking down, "I came—that
is, I—Mr. Baldwin, sir, I'm sorry it turned
out such a failure."</p>
<p>"Of course, Hicks," said Baldwin, softly, "of
course. It must be a great disappointment—to you.
But it is not a failure, Hicks. On the contrary, it
has been a great success—this campaign of education.
I have learned greatly. By the way, Hicks,
kindly announce to the class that I shall change my
method of hearing recitations. I have a new system—based
on the latest discoveries in the laws of probability.
Announce also an examination for to-morrow."</p>
<p>"To-morrow?" said Hickey, astounded.</p>
<p>"On the review—in the interest of education—my
education. Don't look down, Hicks—I cherish no
resentment against you—none at all."</p>
<p>"Against me?" said Hickey, aggrieved.</p>
<p>"My feelings are of gratitude and affection only.
You have been the teacher and I the scholar—but——"
He paused and purveyed the persecuted
Hicks with the smile of the anaconda for the canary,
"but, Hicks, my boy, whatever else may be the
<i>indifference</i> of the masters toward your education,
when you leave Lawrenceville you will not be weak
in—mathematics."</p>
<h2> <a id="THE_MARTYRDOM_OF_WILLIAM_HICKS">THE MARTYRDOM OF WILLIAM HICKS</a></h2>
<hr class="full"/>
<p>Hickey had now reached the height of his fame. Intoxicated
by success, he forgot all prudence, or
rather his revolt became an appetite that demanded
constant feeding. He no longer concealed his past
exploits, he even went so far as to announce the
escapades he planned.</p>
<p>"You are running your head into the noose,
Hickey, my boy," said Macnooder, sadly; "every
master in the school has got his eye on you."</p>
<p>"I know it," said Hickey proudly, "but they've
got to catch me."</p>
<p>"Your position is different," objected Macnooder,
"now you are suspected. And do you want me to
tell you the truth? Your trick about the clappers
was too clever. If you could imagine that, you were
at the bottom of other things. That's what the
Doctor will say to himself when he thinks it over."</p>
<p>"The Doctor plays square," retorted Hickey;
"he won't do anything on suspicion. Let him try
and catch me, let them all try. If they get me fair
and square, I'll take my punishment. I say, Doc,
just you wait. I've got something up my sleeve
that'll make them all sit up."</p>
<p>"Good Lord!" said the Egghead, who was of the
party, "you don't mean you're going on?"</p>
<p>"Egghead," said Hickey, impressively, "I've
made up my mind that I just can't live without doing
one thing more!"</p>
<p>"Heavens, Hickey! what now?"</p>
<p>"I've got a craving, Egghead, to sleep in Tabby's
bed."</p>
<p>"No!"</p>
<p>"Fact."</p>
<p>"What do you mean?"</p>
<p>"Just that. I intend to sleep, not just pop in
and out, to <i>sleep</i> two hours in Tabby's nice, white,
little bed."</p>
<p>"Gee whiz, Hickey! When?"</p>
<p>"Some night that's coming pretty soon."</p>
<p>"When Tabby's away——"</p>
<p>"No, sir, when Tabby's here—after Tabby himself
has been in it. After that I'm going to get
back at Big Brother."</p>
<p>"You're crazy!"</p>
<p>"I'm backing my feelings."</p>
<p>"You'll bet on it?"</p>
<p>"As much as you want."</p>
<p>The scornful Egghead, thus provoked, offered ten
to one against him. Hickey accepted at once.</p>
<p>During the day the news spread and the bets came
flying in. As to his plans, Hickey preserved a
cloaked mystery, promising only that the feat should
take place within the fortnight.</p>
<p>Each night toward midnight, he slipped out of
Sawtelle's window (Sawtelle being sworn to deadly
secrecy). He remained out an hour, sometimes two,
and came back sleepy and chuckling. About this
time the report began to spread that burglars were
in the vicinity.</p>
<p>The Gutter Pup, who roomed on the first floor
of the Woodhull, took a solemn oath that having been
waked up by a strange scratching noise at his window,
he had seen four masked figures with bull's-eye
lanterns scurrying away. The next report came
from Davis with added picturesqueness. The school
became wrought up to an extraordinary pitch of excitement
in which even the masters joined after a
period of incredulity.</p>
<p>When the proper stage of frenzy arrived, Hickey
took into his confidence a dozen allies.</p>
<p>At exactly two o'clock on a moonless night, Beauty
Sawtelle, waiting, watch in hand, gave a horrid shriek
and sent a baseball bat crashing through his window,
where he afterward swore four masked faces
had glared in on him. At the same time the Egghead
raised his window and emptied a revolver into
the air, shouting:</p>
<p>"Thieves, thieves, there they go!"</p>
<p>Immediately every waiting boy sprang out of bed
armed with revolvers, shotguns, brickbats, Japanese
swords and what not, and rushed downstairs, shouting:</p>
<p>"Stop thief!"</p>
<p>Mr. Tapping, startled from his slumbers by the
uproar, seized a bird-gun and, guided by Hungry
Smeed and the Red Dog, rushed out of doors and
valorously took the lead of the searching party. By
this time the racket had spread about the campus
and boys in flimsy garments, ludicrously armed,
came pouring out the other houses and joined the
wild hunt for the masked marauders. Suddenly,
from the direction of Foundation House, a series of
shots exploded amid yells of excitement. At once
the mass that had been churning in the middle of the
campus, set off with a rush. The cry went up that
the burglars had been discovered and were fleeing
down the road to Trenton. Five minutes later the
campus was silent, as boys and masters swept along
the highway, their cries growing fainter in the distance.</p>
<p>Meanwhile, Hickey had not lost a second. Hardly
had Mr. Tapping's pink pajamas rushed from the
Dickinson, when Hickey, entering the study, locked
the door and set to work. In a jiffy he had the
mattress and bedclothes out the window, down into
the waiting hands of Macnooder and the Egghead,
who piled them on a ready wheelbarrow. In less
than five minutes the iron bedstead, separated into
its four component parts, followed. The whole,
packed on the wheelbarrow, was hastily rushed into
the darkness by the rollicking three. According
to the plan, Hickey directed them past Memorial and
into the baseball cage, where, by the light of the
indispensable dark-lantern, they put the bed together,
placed on it the bedding, and saw Hickey
crawl blissfully under cover.</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>When Mr. Tapping returned after an hour's
fruitless pursuit down the dusty road, it had begun
to dawn upon him, in common with other athletic
members of the faculty, that he had been hoaxed.
Mr. Tapping was very sensitive to his dignity, and
dignity was exceedingly difficult in pajamas, in the
chill of a night with a ridiculous bird-gun over his
shoulder and an assorted lot of semi-bare savages
chuckling about him. Tired, covered with dust, and
sheepish, he returned to the Dickinson, gave orders
for every one to return to his room and wearily
toiled up to seek his comfortable bed.</p>
<p>The vacancy that greeted his eyes left him absolutely
incredulous, then beside himself with rage. If
on that moment he could have laid his hands on
Hickey, he would have done him bodily injury.
That Hickey was the perpetrator of this new outrage,
as of the previous ones, he never for a moment
doubted. His instinct needed no proofs, and
in such enmities the instinct is strong. He went
directly to Hickey's room, finding it, as he had expected,
empty. He sat there half an hour, an hour,
fruitlessly. Then he made the rounds of the house
and returned to the room, seated himself, folded his
arms violently, set his teeth and prepared to wait.
He heard four o'clock strike, then five, and he began
to nod. He rose, shook himself, returned to his seat
and presently fell asleep, and in this condition
Hickey, returning, found him.</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>The bell rang six, and Mr. Tapping, starting up
guiltily, glanced hastily at the bed and assured himself
thankfully that it was empty. Moreover, conclusive
evidence, the counterpane had not been turned
down, so Hickey had not gone to bed at all.</p>
<p>By prodigies of will power he remained awake,
consoled by the fact that he held at last the evidence
needed to debarrass himself of his tormentor.
At seven o'clock the gym bell rang the
rising hour. Mr. Tapping rose triumphant. Suddenly
he stopped and looked down in horror. Something
had moved under the bed. The next moment
Hickey's face appeared under the skirts of the trailing
bedspread—Hickey's face, a mirror of sleepy
amazement, as he innocently asked:</p>
<p>"Why, Mr. Tapping, what is the matter?"</p>
<p>"Hicks!" exclaimed Mr. Tapping, too astounded
to gather his thoughts, "is that you, Hicks?"</p>
<p>"Yes, sir."</p>
<p>"What are you doing under there?"</p>
<p>"Please sir," said Hickey, "I'm troubled with insomnia
and sometimes this is the only way I can
sleep."</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>At two o'clock Hickey was a second time summoned
to Foundation House. He went in perfect faith.
Nothing had miscarried, there was not the slightest
evidence against him. If he was questioned he would
refuse to answer—that was all. It had been a morning
of exquisite triumph for him. Tabby's bed had
not been discovered until ten o'clock, and the transferal
to the Dickinson, made in full daylight, had
been witnessed by the assembled school. He went
across the campus, light of feet and proud of heart,
aware of the scores of discreetly admiring eyes that
followed him, hearing pleasantly the murmurs which
buzzed after him:</p>
<p>"Oh, you prodigious Hickey—oh, you daredevil!"</p>
<p>Of course, the Doctor would be in a towering
rage. Hickey was not unreasonable, he understood
and expected a natural exhibition of vexation. What
could the Doctor do, after all? Ask him questions
which he would refuse to answer—that was all, but
that was not evidence.</p>
<p>He found the Doctor alone, quietly writing at
his desk, and received a smile and an invitation to be
seated. Somehow the tranquillity of the head master's
attitude did not reassure Hickey. He would
have preferred a little more agitation, but this satisfied
calm was disquieting.</p>
<p>He stood with his hands behind his back, twirling
his cap, studying the photographs of Grecian architecture
on the walls, finding it awfully still and wishing
the Doctor would begin.</p>
<p>Presently the Doctor turned, put down his spectacles,
shoved back from the desk and glanced at
Hickey with a smile, saying:</p>
<p>"Well, Hicks, we're going to let you go."</p>
<p>"Beg your pardon, sir," said Hickey, smiling
frankly back, "you said——"</p>
<p>"We're going to let you take a vacation."</p>
<p>"Me?"</p>
<p>"You."</p>
<p>Hickey stood a long moment, open-mouthed, staring.</p>
<p>"Do you mean to say," he said, at last, with an
effort, "that I am expelled?"</p>
<p>"Not expelled," said the Doctor, suavely, "we
don't like that word; we're going to let you go, that's
all."</p>
<p>"For what reason?" said Hickey, defiantly.</p>
<p>"For no reason at all," answered the Doctor,
smoothly. "There is no reason, there can be no
reason, Hicks. We're just naturally going to make
up our minds to part with you. You see, Hicks,"
he continued, tilting back and gazing reminiscently
at the ceiling, "we've had a rather agitated session
here, rather extraordinary. The trouble seems to
have broken out in the Dickinson about the time of
the little surprise party at which Mr. Tapping did
not assist! Then a few days later our chapel service
was disturbed and our janitor put to considerable
trouble; next the school routine was thrown into
confusion by the removal of the clapper. We passed
a very disagreeable period—much confusion, very
little study, and the nerves of the faculty were thrown
into such a state that even you, Hicks, were suspected.</p>
<p>Then there was the political campaign, a
subject too painful to analyse. Last night we lost
a great deal of sleep—and sleep is most necessary
to the growing boy. All these events have followed
with great regularity, and while they have not lacked
in picturesqueness, we have, we fear, been forgetting
the main object of our life here—to study a
little."</p>
<p>"Doctor, I——" broke in Hickey.</p>
<p>"No, Hicks, you misunderstand me," said the Doctor,
reproachfully. "All this is true, but that is not
why we are going to let you go. We are going to
let you go, Hicks, for a much more conscientious
reason; we're parting with you, Hicks, because we
feel we no longer have anything to teach you."</p>
<p>"Doctor, I'd like to know," began Hickey, with
a great lump in his throat. Then he stopped and
looked at the floor. He knew his hour had sounded.</p>
<p>"Hicks, we part in sorrow," said the Doctor,
"but we have the greatest faith in your career. We
expect in a few years to claim you as one of our
foremost alumni. Perhaps some day you will give
us a library which we will name after you. No, don't
be disheartened. We have the greatest admiration
for your talents, admiration and respect. Anyone
who can persuade two hundred and fifty keen-eyed
Lawrenceville boys to pay one dollar apiece for silver
gilt scrap-iron souvenirs worth eleven cents
apiece because they may or may not be genuine bits
of a stolen clapper—anyone who can do that is
needed in the commercial development of our country."</p>
<p>"Doctor, do you—do you call this justice?" said
Hickey, with tears in his voice.</p>
<p>"No," said the Doctor, frankly, "I call it a
display of force. You see, Hicks, you've beaten us
at every point, and so all we can do is to let you
go."</p>
<p>"I'll hire a lawyer," said Hicks, brokenly.</p>
<p>"I thought you would," said the Doctor, "only
I hope you will be easy on us, Hicks, for we haven't
much money for damage suits."</p>
<p>"Then I'm to be fired," said Hickey, forcing back
the tears, "fired just for nothing!"</p>
<p>"Just for nothing, Hicks," assented the Doctor,
rising to close the painful interview, "and, Hicks,
as one last favour, we would like to request that it
be by the evening train. We have lost a great deal
of sleep lately."</p>
<p>"Just for nothing," repeated Hickey, hoarsely.</p>
<p>"Just for nothing," replied the Doctor, as he
closed the door.</p>
<hr class="tb"/>
<p>At six o'clock, in the midst of indignant hundreds,
Hickey climbed to the top of the stage, where his
trunks had already been deposited. Nothing could
comfort him, neither the roaring cheers that echoed
again and again to his name, nor the hundreds of
silent hand-shakes or muttered vows to continue the
good fight. His spirit was broken. All was dark
before him. Neither right nor justice existed in the
world.</p>
<p>Egghead and Macnooder, visibly affected, reached
up for the last hand-shakes.</p>
<p>"Keep a stiff upper lip, old man," said the Egghead.</p>
<p>"Don't you worry, Hickey, old boy," said Macnooder;
"we'll attend to Tabby."</p>
<p>Then Hickey, bitterly, from the caverns of his
heart, spoke, raising his fist toward Tabby's study
window.</p>
<p>"He hadn't any proof," he said, brokenly, "no
proof—damn him!"</p>
<p class="break"/>
<hr class="chap"/>
<div/></body>
</html>