<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">V</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Further Persecution of Hickey</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Ever since the disillusionising encounter with Tabby, Hickey, like the obscure Bonaparte before the trenches of Toulon, walked moodily alone, absorbed in his own resolves, evolving his immense scheme of a colossal rebellion. Macnooder, alone, received the full confidence of the war à outrance with the faculty which he gradually evolved.</p>
			<p>Macnooder was the man of peace, the Mazarin and the Machiavelli of the Dickinson. He risked nothing in action, but to his cunning mind with its legal sense of dangers to be met and avoided, were brought all the problems of conspiracies against the discipline of the school. Macnooder pronounced the scheme of a revolt heroic, all the more so that he saw an opportunity of essaying his strategy on large lines.</p>
			<p>“We must begin on a small scale, Hickey,” he said wisely, “and keep working up to something really big.”</p>
			<p>“I thought we might organise a secret society,” said Hickey, ruminating, “something masonic, all sworn to silence and secrecy and all that sort of thing.”</p>
			<p>“No,” said Doc, “just as few as possible and no real confidants, Hickey; we’ll take assistants as we need them.”</p>
			<p>“What would you begin with?”</p>
			<p>“We must strike a blow at Tabby,” said Macnooder. “We must show him that we don’t propose to stand for any of his underhanded methods.”</p>
			<p>“He needs a lesson,” Hickey asserted savagely.</p>
			<p>“How about the skeleton?”</p>
			<p>“Humph!” said Hickey, considering; “perhaps, but that’s rather old.”</p>
			<p>“Not up the flagpole⁠—something new.”</p>
			<p>“What is it, Doc?”</p>
			<p>Hickey looked at Macnooder with expectant admiration.</p>
			<p>“I noticed something yesterday in Memorial, during chapel, that gave me an idea,” said Macnooder profoundly. “There is a great big ventilator in the ceiling; now there must be some way of getting to that and letting a rope down.” Macnooder stopped and looked at Hickey. Hickey returned a look full of admiration, then by a mutual movement they clasped hands in ecstatic, sudden delight.</p>
			<p>That night they reconnoitred with the aid of a dark-lantern, borrowed from Legs Brownell of the Griswold, and the passkeys, of which Hickey was the hereditary possessor.</p>
			<p>They found to their delight that there was in fact a small opening through which one boy could wriggle with difficulty.</p>
			<p>The attempt was fixed for the following night, and as a third boy was indispensable it was decided that etiquette demanded that the owner of the lantern should have the first call.</p>
			<p>At two o’clock that night Hickey and Macnooder stole down the creaking stairs, and out Sawtelle’s window (the highway to the outer world). The night was misty, with a pleasant, ghostly chill that heightened measurably the delight of the adventure. In the shadow of the Griswold a third shivering form cautiously developed into the possessor of the dark-lantern.</p>
			<p>After a whispered consultation, they proceeded to Foundation House, where they secured the necessary rope from the clothesline, it being deemed eminently fitting to secure the cooperation of the best society.</p>
			<p>Memorial Hall entered, they soon found themselves, by the aid of the smelly lantern, in front of the closet that held the skeleton which twice a week served as demonstration to the class in anatomy, and twice a year was dragged forth to decorate the flagpole or some such exalted and inaccessible station. In a short time the door yielded to the prying of the hatchet Macnooder had thoughtfully brought along, and the white, chalky outlines of the melancholy skeleton appeared.</p>
			<p>The three stood gazing, awed. It was black and still, and the hour of the night when dogs howl and bats go hunting.</p>
			<p>“Who’s going to take him?” said Legs in a whisper.</p>
			<p>“Take it yourself,” said Macnooder, unhooking the wriggling form. “Hickey’s got to crawl through the air hole, and I’ve got to work the lantern. You’re not superstitious, are you?”</p>
			<p>“Sure, I’m not,” retorted Legs, who received the skeleton in his arms with a shiver that raised the gooseflesh from his crown to his heels.</p>
			<p>“Come on,” said Hickey in a whisper; “softly now.”</p>
			<p>“What’s that?” exclaimed Legs, drawing in his breath.</p>
			<p>“That’s nothing,” said Macnooder loftily; “all buildings creak at night.”</p>
			<p>“I swear I heard a step. There again. Listen.”</p>
			<p>“Legs is right,” said Hickey in a whisper. “It’s outside.”</p>
			<p>“Rats! it’s nothing but Jimmy,” said Macnooder with enforced calm. “Keep quiet until he passes on.”</p>
			<p>They stood breathless until the sounds of the watchman on his nightly rounds died away. Then they started on tiptoes up the first flight for the chapel, Macnooder leading with the lantern, Legs next with the skeleton gingerly carried in his arms, Hickey bringing up the rear with the coil of rope.</p>
			<p>“Here we are,” said Macnooder at length. “Legs, you wait here⁠—see, that’s where we’re going to hoist him.” He flashed the bull’s-eye upward to the perforated circle directly above the rostrum, and added: “I’ll get Hickey started and then I’ll be right back.”</p>
			<p>“Are you going to take the lantern?” said Legs, whose courage began to fail him.</p>
			<p>“Sure,” said Hickey, indignantly. “Legs, you’re getting scared.”</p>
			<p>“No, I’m not,” protested Legs, faintly, “but I don’t like to be left all alone with this thing in my arms!”</p>
			<p>“Say, do you want my job?” said Hickey, scornfully, “crawling down thirty feet of air hole, with bugs, and spiders and mice? Do you? ’Cause if you do just say so.”</p>
			<p>“No-o-o,” said Legs with a sigh, “no, I’ll stay here.”</p>
			<p>“You don’t believe in ghosts and that sort of thing, do you?” said Macnooder solicitously.</p>
			<p>“Course, I don’t!”</p>
			<p>“All right then, ’cause if you do we won’t leave you.”</p>
			<p>“You chaps go on,” said Legs bravely, “only be quick about it.”</p>
			<p>“All right?”</p>
			<p>“All right.”</p>
			<p>Hickey and Macnooder stole away; then suddenly Hickey, returning, whispered:</p>
			<p>“Say, Legs!”</p>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<p>“If you catch your coat don’t think it’s the dead man’s hand grabbing you, will you?”</p>
			<p>“Darn you, Hickey,” said Legs, “if you don’t shut up I’ll quit.”</p>
			<p>“Sh-h⁠—goodbye, old man.”</p>
			<p>“Hurry up!”</p>
			<p>In the crawling, howling darkness Legs waited, holding the skeleton at arm’s length, trembling like a leaf, listening tensely for a sound, vowing that if he ever got safely back into his bed he would never break another law of the school. At the moment when his courage was wavering, he heard the muffled, slipping tread of Macnooder returning. He drew a long comfortable breath, threw one leg nonchalantly over the back of a nearby seat and clasped the skeleton in an affectionate embrace.</p>
			<p>“Hist⁠—Legs.”</p>
			<p>The lantern flashed upon him. Legs yawned a bored, tranquil yawn.</p>
			<p>“Is that you, Doc?”</p>
			<p>“Were you scared?”</p>
			<p>“Of what?”</p>
			<p>“Say, you’ve got nerve for a youngster,” said Macnooder admiringly. “Honestly, how did it feel hugging old Bonesy, all alone there in the dark?”</p>
			<p>“You know, I rather liked it,” said Legs with a drawl. “I tried to imagine what it would be like to see a ghost. Only, I could hardly keep awake. Good Lord! what’s that?”</p>
			<p>The coil of rope descending had brushed against his face and the start which he gave completely destroyed the effect of his narrative. Macnooder, seizing the rope, made it fast to the skeleton. Then, producing a large pasteboard from under his sweater, he attached it to a foot so that it would display to the morrow’s audience the inscription, <b>Tabby</b>.</p>
			<p>He gave two quick tugs, and the skeleton slowly ascended, twisting and turning in unnatural, white gyrations, throwing grotesque shadows against the ceiling.</p>
			<p>“Now, let’s get up to see Hickey come out,” said Macnooder with a chuckle. “He’s a sight.”</p>
			<p>Ten minutes later, as they waited expectantly, listening at the opening of the narrow passage, a sneeze resounded.</p>
			<p>“What’s that?” exclaimed Legs, whose nerves were tense.</p>
			<p>“That’s Hickey,” said Macnooder with a chuckle. “He’ll be along in a minute. He’s scattering red pepper after him so no one can crawl in to get the skeleton down. Gee! he must have swallowed half of it.”</p>
			<p>A succession of sneezes resounded, and then with a scramble an unrecognisable form shot out of the opening, covered with cobwebs and the accumulated dust of years.</p>
			<p>“For heaven’s sake, Hickey, stop sneezing!” cried Macnooder in tremor. “You’ll get us pinched.”</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I⁠—can’t help it,” returned Hickey between sneezes. “Great idea of yours⁠—red pepper!”</p>
			<p>“Just think of the fellow that goes in after you,” said Macnooder, “and stop sneezing.”</p>
			<p>“It’s in my eyes, down my throat, everywhere!” said Hickey helplessly.</p>
			<p>They got him out of the building and down by the pond where he plunged his head gratefully into the cooling waters. Then they slapped the dust from him and rubbed the cobwebs out of his hair, until he begged for mercy.</p>
			<p>“Never mind, Hickey,” said Macnooder helpfully, “just think of Tabby when he comes in tomorrow.”</p>
			<p>Fortified by this delicious thought, Hickey submitted to being cleaned. Then Macnooder examined him carefully, saying:</p>
			<p>“There mustn’t be the slightest clue; if there is a button missing you’ll have to go back for it.” Suddenly he stopped. “Hickey, there’s one gone⁠—off the left sleeve.”</p>
			<p>“I lost that scrapping with the Egghead last week,” explained Hickey, “and both of the left suspender ones are gone, too.”</p>
			<p>“Honest?”</p>
			<p>“I swear it.”</p>
			<p>“There’s been many a murder tracked down,” said Macnooder impressively, “on just a little button.”</p>
			<p>“Gee! Doc,” said Legs in chilled admiration, “say, what a bully criminal you would make.”</p>
			<p>And on this spontaneous expression of young ambition, the three separated.</p>
			<p>The next morning, when the school filed in to Memorial for chapel, they beheld with rapture the uncanny figure suspended directly over the rostrum. In an instant the name was whispered over the benches⁠—“Tabby.” It was then a feat of the Dickinson House. Every Dickinsonian was questioned excitedly and professed the blankest ignorance, but with such an insistent air, that twenty were instantly credited with the deed. Then, with a common impulse, the school turned to watch the entrance of the faculty. Each master on entering started, repressed an involuntary smile, looked to see the name attached, frowned, gazed fiercely at the nearest boys and took his seat.</p>
			<p>Suddenly a thrill of excitement ran over the school and like a huge sigh the exclamation welled up, “Tabby!”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lorenzo Blackstone Tapping had entered. His eyes met the skeleton and he coloured. A smile would have saved him, but the young Greek and Latin expert understood nothing of the humanising sciences. He tried to look unconcerned and failed; he tried to look dignified and appeared sheepish; he tried to appear calm and became red with anger. It was a moment that carried joy into the heart of Hickey, joy and the forgetfulness of red pepper, cobwebs and dust.</p>
			<p>Then the head master arrived and a frightened calm fell over the awed assemblage. Did he see the skeleton? There was not the slightest evidence of recognition. He walked to his seat without a break and began the services without once lifting his eyes. The school was vexed, mystified and apprehensive. But at the close of the services the head master spoke, seeking the culprits among the four hundred, and under that terrifying glance each innocent boy looked guilty.</p>
			<p>Such an outrage had never before occurred in the history of the institution, he assured them. Not only had a gross desecration been done to the sacredness of the spot, but wanton and cowardly insult had been perpetrated on one of the masters (Tapping thought the specific allusion might have been omitted). It was as cowardly as the miserable wretch who writes an anonymous letter, as cowardly as the drunken bully who shoots from the dark. He repelled the thought that this was a manifestation of the spirit of the school; it was rather the isolated act of misguided unfortunates who should never have entered the institution, who would leave it the day of their detection. And he promised the school that they would be detected, that he would neither rest nor spare an effort to ferret out this cancer and remove it.</p>
			<p>Hickey drank in the terrific onslaught with delight. He had struck the enemy, he had made it wince and cry out. The first battle was his. He rose with the school and shuffled up the aisle. Suddenly at the exit, he beheld <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping waiting. Their glances met in a long hostile clash. There was no mistaking the master’s meaning; it was a direct accusation that sought in Hickey’s face to surprise a telltale look.</p>
			<p>A great lump rose in Hickey’s throat; all the joy of a moment ago passed, a profound melancholy enveloped him; he felt alone, horribly alone, fighting against the impossible.</p>
			<p>“Why?” he said, bitterly, “why should he always pick on me⁠—the sneak!”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>During the next few days a few minor skirmishes ensued which showed only too clearly to Hickey, the implacable persecution he must expect from Tabby. The first day it was the question of breakfast.</p>
			<p>At seven o’clock every morning the rising bell fills the air with its clamour from the belfry of the old gymnasium, but no one rises. There is half an hour until the gong sounds for breakfast, a long delicious half hour⁠—the best half hour of the day or night to prolong under the covers. After twenty minutes a few effeminate members rise to prink, five minutes later there is a general tumbling out of the bed and a wild scamper into garments arranged in ingenious time-saving combinations.</p>
			<p>At exactly the half hour, with the first sounds of the breakfast gong, Hickey would start from his warm bed, plunge his head into the already filled basin, wash with circumspection in eight seconds (drying included), thrust his legs into an arrangement of trousers, socks and unmentionables, pull a jersey over his head, stick his feet into the waiting pair of slippers, part and brush his hair, snap a “dickey” about his neck, and run down the stairs struggling into his coat, tying his tie and attending to the buttons, the whole process varying between twenty-one and one-eighth seconds and twenty-two and three-quarters.</p>
			<p>But on the morning after the exposing of the skeleton Hickey had trouble with the dickey. The school regulations tyrannically demanded that each boy should appear at breakfast and chapel properly dressed, <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr>, in collar and shirt. But as the appearance is accepted for the fact, the “dickey” comes to the rescue and permits not only despatch in dressing, but by suppressing a luxury from the wash list, to attend to the necessities of the stomach. The dickey is formed by the junction of two flat cuffs, held together by a stud, to which is attached a collar, and later a tie. When the coat is added even the most practised eye may be deceived by the enclosed exhibition of linen.</p>
			<p>On the aforesaid morning as Hickey hastily donned his dickey the stud snapped and he was forced to waste precious seconds in not only procuring another stud, but in arranging the component parts. He tore down the stairs to find the door shut in his face⁠—Tabby’s orders, of course!</p>
			<p>The next night the same malignant enemy surprised him at ten o’clock returning on tiptoe from the Egghead’s room⁠—marks and penal service on Saturday afternoon. Hickey soon perceived that he was to be subjected to a constant surveillance, that the slightest absence from his room after dark would expose him to detection and punishment. Macnooder counselled seeming submission and a certain interval of patient caution. Hickey indignantly repelled the advice; the more the danger the greater the glory.</p>
			<p>On Friday morning a strange calm pervaded the school, a lethargy universal and sweet. Seven o’clock, half past seven, a quarter of eight, and not a stir. Then suddenly in every house, exclamations of amazement burst from the rooms, watches were scanned incredulously and excited boys called from house to house. Gradually the wonder dawned, welcomed by cries of rejoicing⁠—the clapper had been stolen!</p>
			<p>In the Dickinson, Hickey and Macnooder were the first in the halls, the loudest in their questions, the most dumbfounded at the occurrence. Breakfast, forty minutes late, was eaten in a buzz of excitement, interrupted by the arrival of a messenger from the head master with peremptory orders to convene at once in Memorial.</p>
			<p>The Doctor was in no pleasant mood. The theft of the clapper, coming so soon upon the incident of the skeleton, had roused his fighting blood. His discourse was terse, to the point, and uncompromising. There could no longer be any doubt that individuals were in rebellion against the peace and discipline of the school. He would accept the defiance. If it was to be war, war it should be. It was for the majority to say how long they, the law-abiding, the studious, the decent, would suffer from the reckless outrages of a few without standards or seriousness of purpose. The clapper would not be replaced. All marks for tardiness and absence from recitations would be doubled, and the moment any total reached twenty, that boy would be immediately suspended from the institution. The clapper would not be replaced until the school itself replaced it!</p>
			<p>Hickey drank in the sweet discourse, revelling in the buzz of conjecture that rose about him, concentrating all his powers on appearing innocent and unconcerned before the fusillade of admiring, alluring glances that spontaneously sought him out.</p>
			<p>The school went to the recitation rooms joyfully, discussing how best to draw from the ultimatum all the amusement possible. By the afternoon every boy was armed with an alarm clock, which he carried into each recitation, placing it in the aisle at his feet after a solicitous comparison of the time with his neighbours. Five minutes before the close of the hour the bombardment would begin, and as each clock exploded the owner would grab it up frantically and depart for the next recitation in a gallop. Bright happy days, when even the monotony of the classroom disappeared under the expectation of a sudden alarm!</p>
			<p>With a perfect simulation of seriousness, expeditions, known as clapper parties, were organised to search for the missing clapper. Orchards, gardens, streams⁠—nothing was spared in the search. Complaints began to pour in from neighbouring farmers with threats of defending their property with shotguns. The school gardener arrived in a panic to implore protection for his lawns. Then the alarm clocks became strangely unreliable. At every moment the sound of the alarm, singly, or in bunches, was heard in the halls of Memorial. Several of the older members of the faculty, who were addicted to insomnia and nervous indigestion, sent in their ultimatum. Thus forced to a decision, the head master compromised. He had the clapper replaced and assessed the school for the costs.</p>
			<p>During those glorious, turbulent days, Hickey perceived with melancholy that Tabby still persisted in suspecting him. It was disheartening, but there was no blinking the fact. Tabby suspected him!</p>
			<p>At the table Tabby’s eyes restlessly returned again and again in his direction. Tabby’s ears were strained to catch the slightest word he might utter, in fact, everything in Tabby’s bearing indicated a malignant determination to see in him the author of every escapade. This fresh injustice roused Hickey’s ire to such an extent that despite the cautious Macnooder he determined upon a further deed of bravado.</p>
			<p>One morning <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lorenzo Blackstone Tapping, exactly as Hickey planned, perceived a curious watch charm on Hickey’s watch chain, which he soon made out to be a miniature silver clapper. Immediately suspicious, he noticed that every boy in the room was in a state of excitement. On examining them he discovered that every waistcoat was adorned with the same suspect emblem. During the day a chance remark overheard, revealed to him the fact that Hickey was selling the souvenirs at a dollar apiece. Assuredly here was an important clue. That afternoon all his doubts were answered. He was seated at his study window when his attention was attracted by a group directly beneath. Against the wall Hickey was standing, with a large box under his arm, selling souvenirs as fast as he could make change to the breathless crowd which augmented at every moment.</p>
			<p>Meanwhile, Hickey, fully aware of his enemy’s proximity, took special pains that the conversation should carry. About him the excited crowd pressed in a frantic endeavour to purchase before the store was exhausted.</p>
			<p>To all inquiries Hickey maintained a dark secrecy.</p>
			<p>“I’m saying nothing, fellows, nothing at all,” he said with a canny smile; “it isn’t wise sometimes to do much talking. The impression has somehow got around that these little ‘suveneers’ are made out of the original clapper. I’m not responsible for that impression, gents, and I make no remarks thereupon. These little ‘suveneers’ I hold in my hand are silver-plated⁠—<em>silver-plated</em>, gents, and when a thing is silver-plated there must be something inside. And I further remark that these ‘suveneers’ will sell for one dollar apiece only until five o’clock, that after that time they will sell at one dollar and a half, and I further remark that there are only forty-five left!” Then rattling the box he continued with simulated innocence, “Nothing but a ‘suveneer,’ gents, nothing guaranteed. We sell nothing under false pretences!”</p>
			<p>At half past four he had sold the last of a lot of two hundred and fifty amid scenes of excitement worthy of Wall Street.</p>
			<p>At five o’clock, Hickey received a summons to Foundation House. There to his delight he found the head master in the company of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping.</p>
			<p>Hickey entered with the candour of a cherub, plainly quite at loss as to the object of the summons.</p>
			<p>“Hicks,” said the head master in his solemnest tones, “you are under very grave suspicion.”</p>
			<p>“Me, sir?” said Hickey in ungrammatical astonishment.</p>
			<p>“Hicks, it has come to my knowledge that you are selling as souvenirs bits of the clapper that was stolen from the gymnasium.”</p>
			<p>“May I ask, sir,” said Hickey with indignation, “who has accused me?”</p>
			<p>At this <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping spoke up severely:</p>
			<p>“I have informed the Doctor of facts which have come into my possession.”</p>
			<p>“Sir,” said Hickey, addressing the head master, “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping has <em>honoured</em> me with his enmity for a long while. He has not even hesitated to <em>threaten</em> me. I am not surprised that he should accuse me, only I insist that he state what evidence he has for bringing this accusation.”</p>
			<p>“Doctor, allow me,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping, somewhat ill at ease. Then turning to Hickey he said, with the air of a cross-examiner: “Hicks, are you or are you not selling souvenirs at one dollar apiece, in the shape of small silver clappers?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly.”</p>
			<p>“Made out of the original clapper?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly <em>not</em>!”</p>
			<p>“What!” exclaimed the amazed Tapping.</p>
			<p>“Certainly not.”</p>
			<p>“Do you mean to say that two hundred and fifty boys would have bought those souvenirs at a dollar apiece for any other reason than that they contained a bit of the stolen clapper?”</p>
			<p>Hickey smiled proudly.</p>
			<p>“They may have been under that impression.”</p>
			<p>“Because you told them!”</p>
			<p>“No, sir,” said Hickey with righteous anger. “You have no right, sir, to say such a thing. On the contrary, I refused to answer one way or the other. You listened this afternoon from your window and you heard exactly my answer. If you will do me the <em>justice</em>, sir, to tell the Doctor what I did say, I shall be very much obliged to you.”</p>
			<p>“Enough, Hicks,” said the head master with a frown. “Answer me directly. Are these watch charms made up out of the original clapper?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>The Doctor, in his turn, looked amazed.</p>
			<p>“Come, Hicks, that is not possible,” he said. “I warn you I shall trace them without any difficulty.”</p>
			<p>Then Hickey smiled, a long delicious smile of culminating triumph. Slowly he drew forth from his pocket an envelope, from which he produced a legal document.</p>
			<p>“If you will kindly read this, sir,” he said, tending it with deepest respect.</p>
			<p>The Doctor took it, glanced curiously at Hickey, and then began to read. Presently his face relaxed, and despite a struggle a smile appeared. Then he handed the document to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping, who read as follows:</p>
			<hr/>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>I, John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J.</abbr> Goodsell, representing the firm of White, Brown and Bangs, jewellers of Trenton, New Jersey, take oath that I have this day engaged to manufacture for William Orville Hicks of the Lawrenceville school 250 small clappers, design submitted, of iron plated with silver, and that the iron which forms the foundation comes from scrap-iron entirely furnished by us.</p>
				<p>Sworn to in the presence of notary.</p>
				<footer role="presentation">
					<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J.</abbr> Goodsell.</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Attached to the document was a bill as follows:</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>William Orville Hicks, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>,<br/>
				To White, Brown and Bangs.<br/>
				250 silver gilt clappers, at 11c apiece $27.50<br/>
				Received payment.</p>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
