<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Great Pancake Record</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Little Smeed stood apart, in the obscure shelter of the station, waiting to take his place on the stage which would carry him to the great new boarding-school. He was frail and undersized, with a long, pointed nose and vacant eyes that stupidly assisted the wide mouth to make up a famished face. The scarred bag in his hand hung from one clasp, the premature trousers were at half-mast, while pink polka-dots blazed from the cuffs of his nervous sleeves.</p>
			<p>By the wheels of the stage “Fire Crackers” Glendenning and “Jock” Hasbrouck, veterans of the Kennedy House, sporting the ’varsity initials on their sweaters and caps, were busily engaged in cross-examining the new boys who clambered timidly to their places on top. Presently, Fire Crackers, perceiving Smeed, hailed him.</p>
			<p>“Hello, over there⁠—what’s your name?”</p>
			<p>“Smeed, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Smeed what?”</p>
			<p>“Johnnie Smeed.”</p>
			<p>The questioner looked him over with disfavour and said aggressively:</p>
			<p>“You’re not for the Kennedy?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“What house?”</p>
			<p>“The Dickinson, sir.”</p>
			<p>“The Dickinson, eh? That’s a good one,” said Fire Crackers, with a laugh, and, turning to his companion, he added, “Say, Jock, won’t Hickey and the old Turkey be wild when they get this one?”</p>
			<p>Little Smeed, uncomprehending of the judgment that had been passed, stowed his bag inside and clambered up to a place on the top. Jimmy, at the reins, gave a warning shout. The horses, stirred by the whip, churned obediently through the sideways of Trenton.</p>
			<p>Lounging on the stage were half a dozen newcomers, six well-assorted types, from the well-groomed stripling of the city to the aggressive, big-limbed animal from the West, all profoundly under the sway of the two old boys who sat on the box with Jimmy and rattled on with quiet superiority. The coach left the outskirts of the city and rolled into the white highway that leads to Lawrenceville. The known world departed for Smeed. He gazed fearfully ahead, waiting the first glimpse of the new continent.</p>
			<p>Suddenly Fire Crackers turned and, scanning the embarrassed group, singled out the strong Westerner with an approving glance.</p>
			<p>“You’re for the Kennedy?”</p>
			<p>The boy, stirring uneasily, blurted out:</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“What’s your name?”</p>
			<p>“Tom Walsh.”</p>
			<p>“How old are you?”</p>
			<p>“Eighteen.”</p>
			<p>“What do you weigh?”</p>
			<p>“One hundred and seventy.”</p>
			<p>“Stripped?”</p>
			<p>“What? Oh, no, sir⁠—regular way.”</p>
			<p>“You’ve played a good deal of football?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>Hasbrouck took up the questioning with a critical appreciation.</p>
			<p>“What position?”</p>
			<p>“Guard and tackle.”</p>
			<p>“You know Bill Stevens?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“He spoke about you; said you played on the Military Academy. You’ll try for the ’varsity?”</p>
			<p>“I guess so.”</p>
			<p>Hasbrouck turned to Fire Crackers in solemn conclave.</p>
			<p>“He ought to stand up against Turkey if he knows anything about the game. If we get a good end we ought to give that Dickinson crowd the fight of their lives.”</p>
			<p>“There’s a fellow came from Montclair they say is pretty good,” Fire Crackers said, with solicitous gravity. “The line’ll be all right if we can get some good halves. That’s where the Dickinson has it on us.”</p>
			<p>Smeed listened in awe to the two statesmen studying out the chances of the Kennedy eleven for the house championship, realising suddenly that there were new and sacred purposes about his new life of which he had no conception. Then, absorbed by the fantasy of the trip and the strange unfolding world into which he was jogging, he forgot the lords of the Kennedy, forgot his fellows in ignorance, forgot that he didn’t play football and was only a stripling, forgot everything but the fascination of the moment when the great school would rise out of the distance and fix itself indelibly in his memory.</p>
			<p>“There’s the water-tower,” said Jimmy, extending the whip; “you’ll see the school from the top of the hill.”</p>
			<p>Little Smeed craned forward with a sudden thumping of his heart. In the distance, a mile away, a cluster of brick and tile sprang out of the green, like a herd of red deer surprised in the forest. Groups of boys began to show on the roadside. Strange greetings were flung back and forth.</p>
			<p>“Hello‑o‑o, Fire Crackers!”</p>
			<p>“How-de-do, Saphead!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, there, Jock Hasbrouck!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you Morning Glory!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you Kennedys, we’re going to lick you!”</p>
			<p>“Yes you are, Dickinson!”</p>
			<p>The coach passed down the shaded vault of the village street, turned into the campus, passed the ivy-clad house of the head master and rolled around a circle of well-trimmed lawn, past the long, low Upper House where the Fourth Form gazed at them in senior superiority; past the great brown masses of Memorial Hall and the pointed chapel, around to where the houses were ranged in red, extended bodies. Little Smeed felt an abject sinking of the heart at this sudden exposure to the thousand eyes fastened upon him from the wide esplanade of the Upper, from the steps of Memorial, from house, windows and stoops, from the shade of apple trees and the glistening road.</p>
			<p>All at once the stage stopped and Jimmy cried:</p>
			<p>“Dickinson!”</p>
			<p>At one end of the redbrick building, overrun with cool vines, a group of boys were lolling in flannels and light jerseys. A chorus went up.</p>
			<p>“Hello, Fire Crackers!”</p>
			<p>“Hello, Jock!”</p>
			<p>“Hello, you Hickey boy!”</p>
			<p>“Hello, Turkey; see what we’ve brought you!”</p>
			<p>Smeed dropped to the ground amid a sudden hush.</p>
			<p>“Fare,” said Jimmy aggressively.</p>
			<p>Smeed dug into his pocket and tendered the necessary coin. The coach squeaked away, while from the top Fire Crackers’ exulting voice returned in insolent exultation:</p>
			<p>“Hard luck, Dickinson! Hard luck, you, old Hickey!”</p>
			<p>Little Smeed, his hat askew, his collar rolled up, his bag at his feet, stood in the road, alone in the world, miserable and thoroughly frightened. One path led to the silent, hostile group on the steps, another went in safety to the master’s entrance. He picked up his bag hastily.</p>
			<p>“Hello, you⁠—over there!”</p>
			<p>Smeed understood it was a command. He turned submissively and approached with embarrassed steps. Face to face with these superior beings, tanned and muscular, stretched in Olympian attitudes, he realised all at once the hopelessness of his ever daring to associate with such demigods. Still he stood, shifting from foot to foot, eyeing the steps, waiting for the solemn ordeal of examination and classification to be over.</p>
			<p>“Well, Hungry⁠—what’s your name?”</p>
			<p>Smeed comprehended that the future was decided, and that to the grave he would go down as “Hungry” Smeed. With a sigh of relief he answered:</p>
			<p>“Smeed⁠—John Smeed.”</p>
			<p>“Sir!”</p>
			<p>“Sir.”</p>
			<p>“How old?”</p>
			<p>“Fifteen.”</p>
			<p>“Sir!!”</p>
			<p>“Sir.”</p>
			<p>“What do you weigh?”</p>
			<p>“One hundred and six⁠—sir!”</p>
			<p>A grim silence succeeded this depressing information. Then someone in the back, as a mere matter of form, asked:</p>
			<p>“Never played football?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Baseball?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Anything on the track?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Sing?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir,” said Smeed, humbly.</p>
			<p>“Do anything at all?”</p>
			<p>Little Smeed glanced at the eaves where the swallows were swaying and then down at the soft couch of green at his feet and answered faintly:</p>
			<p>“No, sir⁠—I’m afraid not.”</p>
			<p>Another silence came, then someone said, in a voice of deepest conviction:</p>
			<p>“A dead loss!”</p>
			<p>Smeed went sadly into the house.</p>
			<p>At the door he lingered long enough to hear the chorus burst out:</p>
			<p>“A fine football team we’ll have!”</p>
			<p>“It’s a put-up job!”</p>
			<p>“They don’t want us to win the championship again⁠—that’s it!”</p>
			<p>“I say, we ought to kick.”</p>
			<p>Then, after a little, the same deep voice:</p>
			<p>“A dead loss!”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>With each succeeding week Hungry Smeed comprehended more fully the enormity of his offence in doing nothing and weighing one hundred and six pounds. He saw the new boys arrive, pass through the fire of christening, give respectable weights and go forth to the gridiron to be whipped into shape by Turkey and the Butcher, who played on the school eleven. Smeed humbly and thankfully went down each afternoon to the practice, carrying the sweaters and shin-guards, like the grateful little beast of burden that he was. He watched his juniors, Spider and Red Dog, rolling in the mud or flung gloriously under an avalanche of bodies; but then, they weighed over one hundred and thirty, while he was still at one hundred and six⁠—a dead loss! The fever of house loyalty invaded him; he even came to look with resentment on the Faculty and to repeat secretly to himself that they never would have unloaded him on the Dickinson if they hadn’t been willing to stoop to any methods to prevent the House again securing the championship.</p>
			<p>The fact that the Dickinson, in an extraordinary manner, finally won by the closest of margins, consoled Smeed but a little while. There were no more sweaters to carry, or pails of barley water to fetch, or guard to be mounted on the old rail-fence, to make certain that the spies from the Davis and Kennedy did not surprise the secret plays which Hickey and Slugger Jones had craftily evolved.</p>
			<p>With the long winter months he felt more keenly his obscurity and the hopelessness of ever leaving a mark on the great desert of school life that would bring honour to the Dickinson. He resented even the lack of the mild hazing the other boys received⁠—he was too insignificant to be so honoured. He was only a “dead loss,” good for nothing but to squeeze through his recitations, to sleep enormously, and to eat like a glutton with a hunger that could never be satisfied, little suspecting the future that lay in this famine of his stomach.</p>
			<p>For it was written in the inscrutable fates that Hungry Smeed should leave a name that would go down imperishably to decades of schoolboys, when Dibbles’ touchdown against Princeton and Kafer’s home run should be only tinkling sounds. So it happened, and the agent of this divine destiny was Hickey.</p>
			<p>It so happened that examinations being still in the threatening distance, Hickey’s fertile brain was unoccupied with methods of facilitating his scholarly progress by homely inventions that allowed formulas and dates to be concealed in the palm and disappear obligingly up the sleeve on the approach of the Natural Enemy. Moreover, Hickey and Hickey’s friends were in straitened circumstances, with all credit gone at the jigger-shop, and the appetite for jiggers in an acute stage of deprivation.</p>
			<p>In this keenly sensitive, famished state of his imagination, Hickey suddenly became aware of a fact fraught with possibilities. Hungry Smeed had an appetite distinguished and remarkable even in that company of aching voids.</p>
			<p>No sooner had this pregnant idea become his property than Hickey confided his hopes to Doc Macnooder, his chum and partner in plans that were dark and mysterious. Macnooder saw in a flash the glorious and lucrative possibilities. A very short series of tests sufficed to convince the twain that in little Smeed they had a phenomenon who needed only to be properly developed to pass into history.</p>
			<p>Accordingly, on a certain muddy morning in March, Hickey and Doc Macnooder, with Smeed in tow, stole into the jigger-shop at an hour in defiance of regulations and fraught with delightful risks of detection.</p>
			<p>Al, the watchdog of the jigger, was tilted back, near a farther window, the parted tow hair falling doglike over his eyes, absorbed in the reading of Spenser’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">The Faerie Queene</i>, an abnormal taste which made him absolutely incomprehensible to the boyish mind. At the sound of the stolen entrance, Al put down the volume and started mechanically to rise. Then, recognising his visitors, he returned to his chair, saying wearily:</p>
			<p>“Nothing doing, Hickey.”</p>
			<p>“Guess again,” said Hickey, cheerily. “We’re not asking you to hang us up this time, Al.”</p>
			<p>“You haven’t got any money,” said Al, the recorder of allowances; “not unless you stole it.”</p>
			<p>“Al, we don’t come to take your hard-earned money, but to do you good,” put in Macnooder impudently. “We’re bringing you a little sporting proposition.”</p>
			<p>“Have you come to pay up that account of yours?” said Al. “If not, run along, you Macnooder; don’t waste my time, with your wildcat schemes.”</p>
			<p>“Al, this is a sporting proposition,” took up Hickey.</p>
			<p>“Has <em>he</em> any money?” said Al, who suddenly remembered that Smeed was not yet under suspicion.</p>
			<p>“See here, Al,” said Macnooder, “we’ll back Smeed to eat the jiggers against you⁠—for the crowd!”</p>
			<p>“Where’s your money?”</p>
			<p>“Here,” said Hickey; “this goes up if we lose.” He produced a gold watch of Smeed’s, and was about to tender it when he withdrew it with a sudden caution. “On the condition, if we win I get it back and you won’t hold it up against my account.”</p>
			<p>“All right. Let’s see it.”</p>
			<p>The watch was given to Al, who looked it over, grunted in approval, and then looked at little Smeed.</p>
			<p>“Now, Al,” said Macnooder softly, “give us a gambling chance; he’s only a runt.”</p>
			<p>Al considered, and Al was wise. The proposition came often and he had never lost. A jigger is unlike any other ice cream; it is dipped from the creamy tin by a cone-shaped scoop called a jigger, which gives it an unusual and peculiar flavour. Since those days the original jigger has been contaminated and made ridiculous by offensive alliances with upstart syrups, meringues and macaroons with absurd titles; but then the boy went to the simple jigger as the sturdy Roman went to the cold waters of the Tiber. A double jigger fills a large soda-glass when ten cents has been laid on the counter, and two such glasses quench all desire in the normal appetite.</p>
			<p>“If he can eat twelve double jiggers,” Al said slowly, “I’ll set them up and the jiggers for youse. Otherwise, I’ll hold the watch.”</p>
			<p>At this there was a protest from the backers of the champion, with the result that the limit was reduced to ten.</p>
			<p>“Is it a go?” Al said, turning to Smeed, who had waited modestly in the background.</p>
			<p>“Sure,” he answered, with calm certainty.</p>
			<p>“You’ve got nerve, you have,” said Al, with a scornful smile, scooping up the first jiggers and shoving the glass to him. “Ten doubles is the record in these parts, young fellow!”</p>
			<p>Then little Smeed, methodically, and without apparent pain, ate the ten doubles.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Conover’s was not in the catalogue that anxious parents study, but then catalogues are like epitaphs in a cemetery. Next to the jigger-shop, Conover’s was quite the most important institution in the school. In a little white Colonial cottage, Conover, veteran of the late war, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Conover, still in active service, supplied pancakes and maple syrup on a cash basis, two dollars credit to second-year boys in good repute. Conover’s, too, had its traditions. Twenty-six pancakes, large and thick, in one continuous sitting, was the record, five years old, standing to the credit of Guzzler Wilkins, which succeeding classes had attacked in vain. Wily Conover, to stimulate such profitable tests, had solemnly pledged himself to the delivery of free pancakes to all comers during that day on which any boy, at one continuous sitting, unaided, should succeed in swallowing the awful number of thirty-two. Conover was not considered a prodigal.</p>
			<p>This deed of heroic accomplishment and public benefaction was the true goal of Hickey’s planning. The test of the jigger-shop was but a preliminary trying out. With medical caution, Doc Macnooder refused to permit Smeed to go beyond the ten doubles, holding very wisely that the jigger record could wait for a further day. The amazed Al was sworn to secrecy.</p>
			<p>It was Wednesday, and the following Saturday was decided upon for the supreme test at Conover’s. Smeed at once was subjected to a graduated system of starvation. Thursday he was hungry, but Friday he was so ravenous that a watch was instituted on all his movements.</p>
			<p>The next morning the Dickinson House, let into the secret, accompanied Smeed to Conover’s. If there was even a possibility of free pancakes, the House intended to be satisfied before the deluge broke.</p>
			<p>Great was the astonishment at Conover’s at the arrival of the procession.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conover,” said Hickey, in the quality of manager, “we’re going after that pancake record.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Wilkins’ record?” said Conover, seeking vainly the champion in the crowd.</p>
			<p>“No⁠—after that record of <em>yours</em>,” answered Hickey. “Thirty-two pancakes⁠—we’re here to get free pancakes today⁠—that’s what we’re here for.”</p>
			<p>“So, boys, so,” said Conover, smiling pleasantly; “and you want to begin now?”</p>
			<p>“Right off the bat.”</p>
			<p>“Well, where is he?”</p>
			<p>Little Smeed, famished to the point of tears, was thrust forward. Conover, who was expecting something on the lines of a buffalo, smiled confidently.</p>
			<p>“So, boys, so,” he said, leading the way with alacrity. “I guess we’re ready, too.”</p>
			<p>“Thirty-two pancakes, Conover⁠—and we get ’em free!”</p>
			<p>“That’s right,” answered Conover, secure in his knowledge of boyish capacity. “If that little boy there can eat thirty-two I’ll make them all day free to the school. That’s what I said, and what I say goes⁠—and that’s what I say now.”</p>
			<p>Hickey and Doc Macnooder whispered the last instructions in Smeed’s ear.</p>
			<p>“Cut out the syrup.”</p>
			<p>“Loosen your belt.”</p>
			<p>“Eat slowly.”</p>
			<p>In a low room, with the white rafters impending over his head, beside a basement window flanked with geraniums, little Smeed sat down to battle for the honour of the Dickinson and the record of the school. Directly under his eyes, carved on the wooden table, a name challenged him, standing out of the numerous initials⁠—Guzzler Wilkins.</p>
			<p>“I’ll keep count,” said Hickey. “Macnooder and Turkey, watch the pancakes.”</p>
			<p>“Regulation size, Conover,” cried that cautious Red Dog; “no doubling now. All fair and aboveboard.”</p>
			<p>“All right, Hickey, all right,” said Conover, leering wickedly from the door; “if that little grasshopper can do it, you get the cakes.”</p>
			<p>“Now, Hungry,” said Turkey, clapping Smeed on the shoulder. “Here is where you get your chance. Remember, Kid, old sport, it’s for the Dickinson.”</p>
			<p>Smeed heard in ecstasy; it was just the way Turkey talked to the eleven on the eve of a match. He nodded his head with a grim little shake and smiled nervously at the thirty-odd Dickinsonians who formed around him a pit of expectant and hungry boyhood from the floor to the ceiling.</p>
			<p>“All ready!” sang out Turkey, from the doorway.</p>
			<p>“Six pancakes!”</p>
			<p>“Six it is,” replied Hickey, chalking up a monster 6 on the slate that swung from the rafters. The pancakes placed before the ravenous Smeed vanished like snowflakes on a July lawn.</p>
			<p>A cheer went up, mingled with cries of caution.</p>
			<p>“Not so fast.”</p>
			<p>“Take your time.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t let them be too hot.”</p>
			<p>“Not too hot, Hickey!”</p>
			<p>Macnooder was instructed to watch carefully over the temperature as well as the dimensions.</p>
			<p>“Ready again,” came the cry.</p>
			<p>“Ready⁠—how many?”</p>
			<p>“Six more.”</p>
			<p>“Six it is,” said Hickey, adding a second figure to the score. “Six and six are twelve.”</p>
			<p>The second batch went the way of the first.</p>
			<p>“Why, that boy is starving,” said Conover, opening his eyes.</p>
			<p>“Sure he is,” said Hickey. “He’s eating ’way back in last week⁠—he hasn’t had a thing for ten days.”</p>
			<p>“Six more,” cried Macnooder.</p>
			<p>“Six it is,” answered Hickey. “Six and twelve is eighteen.”</p>
			<p>“Eat them one at a time, Hungry.”</p>
			<p>“No, let him alone.”</p>
			<p>“He knows best.”</p>
			<p>“Not too fast, Hungry, not too fast.”</p>
			<p>“Eighteen for Hungry, eighteen. Hurrah!”</p>
			<p>“Thirty-two is a long ways to go,” said Conover, gazing apprehensively at the little David who had come so impudently into his domain; “fourteen pancakes is an awful lot.”</p>
			<p>“Shut up, Conover.”</p>
			<p>“No trying to influence him there.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t listen to him, Hungry.”</p>
			<p>“He’s only trying to get you nervous.”</p>
			<p>“Fourteen more, Hungry⁠—fourteen more.”</p>
			<p>“Ready again,” sang out Macnooder.</p>
			<p>“Ready here.”</p>
			<p>“Three pancakes.”</p>
			<p>“Three it is,” responded Hickey. “Eighteen and three is twenty-one.”</p>
			<p>But a storm of protest arose.</p>
			<p>“Here, that’s not fair!”</p>
			<p>“I say, Hickey, don’t let them do that.”</p>
			<p>“I say, Hickey, it’s twice as hard that way.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, go on.”</p>
			<p>“Sure it is.”</p>
			<p>“Of course it is.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t you know that you can’t drink a glass of beer if you take it with a teaspoon?”</p>
			<p>“That’s right, Red Dog’s right! Six at a time.”</p>
			<p>“Six at a time!”</p>
			<p>A hurried consultation was now held and the reasoning approved. Macnooder was charged with the responsibility of seeing to the number as well as the temperature and dimensions.</p>
			<p>Meanwhile Smeed had eaten the pancakes.</p>
			<p>“Coming again!”</p>
			<p>“All ready here.”</p>
			<p>“Six pancakes!”</p>
			<p>“Six,” said Hickey; “twenty-one and six is twenty-seven.”</p>
			<p>“That’ll beat Guzzler Wilkins.”</p>
			<p>“So it will.”</p>
			<p>“Five more makes thirty-two.”</p>
			<p>“Easy, Hungry, easy.”</p>
			<p>“Hungry’s done it; he’s done it.”</p>
			<p>“Twenty-seven and the record!”</p>
			<p>“Hurrah!”</p>
			<p>At this point Smeed looked about anxiously.</p>
			<p>“It’s pretty dry,” he said, speaking for the first time.</p>
			<p>Instantly there was a panic. Smeed was reaching his limit⁠—a groan went up.</p>
			<p>“Oh, Hungry.”</p>
			<p>“Only five more.”</p>
			<p>“Give him some water.”</p>
			<p>“Water, you loon; do you want to end him?”</p>
			<p>“Why?”</p>
			<p>“Water’ll swell up the pancakes, crazy.”</p>
			<p>“No water, no water.”</p>
			<p>Hickey approached his man with anxiety.</p>
			<p>“What is it, Hungry? Anything wrong?” he said tenderly.</p>
			<p>“No, only it’s a little dry,” said Smeed, unmoved. “I’m all right, but I’d like just a drop of syrup now.”</p>
			<p>The syrup was discussed, approved and voted.</p>
			<p>“You’re sure you’re all right,” said Hickey.</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes.”</p>
			<p>Conover, in the last ditch, said carefully:</p>
			<p>“I don’t want no fits around here.”</p>
			<p>A cry of protest greeted him.</p>
			<p>“Well, son, that boy can’t stand much more. That’s just like the Guzzler. He was taken short and we had to work over him for an hour.”</p>
			<p>“Conover, shut up!”</p>
			<p>“Conover, you’re beaten.”</p>
			<p>“Conover, that’s an old game.”</p>
			<p>“Get out.”</p>
			<p>“Shut up.”</p>
			<p>“Fair play.”</p>
			<p>“Fair play! Fair play!”</p>
			<p>A new interruption came from the kitchen. Macnooder claimed that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Conover was doubling the size of the cakes. The dish was brought. There was no doubt about it. The cakes were swollen. Pandemonium broke loose. Conover capitulated, the cakes were rejected.</p>
			<p>“Don’t be feazed by that,” said Hickey, warningly to Smeed.</p>
			<p>“I’m not,” said Smeed.</p>
			<p>“All ready,” came Macnooder’s cry.</p>
			<p>“Ready here.”</p>
			<p>“Six pancakes!”</p>
			<p>“Regulation size?”</p>
			<p>“Regulation.”</p>
			<p>“Six it is,” said Hickey, at the slate. “Six and twenty-seven is thirty-three.”</p>
			<p>“Wait a moment,” sang out the Butcher. “He has only to eat thirty-two.”</p>
			<p>“That’s so⁠—take one off.”</p>
			<p>“Give him five, Hickey⁠—five only.”</p>
			<p>“If Hungry says he can eat six,” said Hickey, firmly, glancing at his protégé, “he can. We’re out for big things. Can you do it, Hungry?”</p>
			<p>And Smeed, fired with the heroism of the moment, answered in disdainful simplicity:</p>
			<p>“Sure!”</p>
			<p>A cheer that brought two Davis House boys running in greeted the disappearance of the thirty-third. Then everything was forgotten in the amazement of the deed.</p>
			<p>“Please, I’d like to go on,” said Smeed.</p>
			<p>“Oh, Hungry, can you do it?”</p>
			<p>“Really?”</p>
			<p>“You’re goin’ on?”</p>
			<p>“Holy cats!”</p>
			<p>“How’ll you take them?” said Hickey, anxiously.</p>
			<p>“I’ll try another six,” said Smeed, thoughtfully, “and then we’ll see.”</p>
			<p>Conover, vanquished and convinced, no longer sought to intimidate him with horrid suggestions.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Smeed,” he said, giving him his hand in admiration, “you go ahead; you make a great record.”</p>
			<p>“Six more,” cried Macnooder.</p>
			<p>“Six it is,” said Hickey, in an awed voice; “six and thirty-three makes thirty-nine!”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Conover and Macnooder, no longer antagonists, came in from the kitchen to watch the great spectacle. Little Smeed alone, calm and unconscious, with the light of a great ambition on his forehead, ate steadily, without vacillation.</p>
			<p>“Gee, what a stride!”</p>
			<p>“By Jiminy, where does he put it?” said Conover, staring helplessly.</p>
			<p>“Holy cats!”</p>
			<p>“Thirty-nine⁠—thirty-nine pancakes⁠—gee!!!”</p>
			<p>“Hungry,” said Hickey, entreatingly, “do you think you could eat another⁠—make it an even forty?”</p>
			<p>“Three more,” said Smeed, pounding the table with a new authority. This time no voice rose in remonstrance. The clouds had rolled away. They were in the presence of a master.</p>
			<p>“Pancakes coming.”</p>
			<p>“Bring them in!”</p>
			<p>“Three more.”</p>
			<p>“Three it is,” said Hickey, faintly. “Thirty-nine and three makes forty-two⁠—forty-two. Gee!”</p>
			<p>In profound silence the three pancakes passed regularly from the plate down the throat of little Smeed. Forty-two pancakes!</p>
			<p>“Three more,” said Smeed.</p>
			<p>Doc Macnooder rushed in hysterically.</p>
			<p>“Hungry, go the limit⁠—the limit! If anything happens I’ll bleed you.”</p>
			<p>“Shut up, Doc!”</p>
			<p>“Get out, you wild man.”</p>
			<p>Macnooder was sent ignominiously back into the kitchen, with the curses of the Dickinson, and Smeed assured of their unfaltering protection.</p>
			<p>“Three more,” came the cry from the chastened Macnooder.</p>
			<p>“Three it is,” said Hickey. “Forty-two and three makes⁠—forty-five.”</p>
			<p>“Holy cats!”</p>
			<p>Still little Smeed, without appreciable abatement of hunger, continued to eat. A sense of impending calamity and alarm began to spread. Forty-five pancakes, and still eating! It might turn into a tragedy.</p>
			<p>“Say, bub⁠—say, now,” said Hickey, gazing anxiously down into the pointed face, “you’ve done enough⁠—don’t get rash.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll stop when it’s time,” said Smeed; “bring ’em on now, one at a time.”</p>
			<p>“Forty-six, forty-seven, forty-eight, forty-nine!”</p>
			<p>Suddenly, at the moment when they expected him to go on forever, little Smeed stopped, gazed at his plate, then at the fiftieth pancake, and said:</p>
			<p>“That’s all.”</p>
			<p>Forty-nine pancakes! Then, and only then, did they return to a realisation of what had happened. They cheered Smeed, they sang his praises, they cheered again, and then, pounding the table, they cried, in a mighty chorus:</p>
			<p>“We want pancakes!”</p>
			<p>“Bring us pancakes!”</p>
			<p>“Pancakes, pancakes, we want pancakes!”</p>
			<p>Twenty minutes later, Red Dog and the Egghead, fed to bursting, rolled out of Conover’s, spreading the uproarious news.</p>
			<p>“Free pancakes! Free pancakes!”</p>
			<p>The nearest houses, the Davis and the Rouse, heard and came with a rush.</p>
			<p>Red Dog and the Egghead staggered down into the village and over to the circle of houses, throwing out their arms like returning bacchanalians.</p>
			<p>“Free pancakes!”</p>
			<p>“Hungry Smeed’s broken the record!”</p>
			<p>“Pancakes at Conover’s⁠—free pancakes!”</p>
			<p>The word jumped from house to house, the campus was emptied in a trice. The road became choked with the hungry stream that struggled, fought, laughed and shouted as it stormed to Conover’s.</p>
			<p>“Free pancakes! Free pancakes!”</p>
			<p>“Hurrah for Smeed!”</p>
			<p>“Hurrah for Hungry Smeed!!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
