<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>I: The Awakening of Hickey</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">I</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Awakening of Hickey</p>
			</hgroup>
			<section id="chapter-1-1" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<p>“ ‘He forged a thunderbolt and hurled it at what? At the proudest blood in Europe, the Spaniard, and sent him home conquered; at the most warlike blood in Europe, the French’ ”.⁠ ⁠…</p>
				<p>Shrimp Davis, on the platform, piped forth the familiar periods of Phillips’s oration on Toussaint L’Ouverture, while the Third Form in declamation, disposed to sleep, stirred fitfully on one another’s shoulders, resenting the adolescent squeak that rendered perfect rest impossible. Pa Dater followed from the last bench, marking the position of the heels, the adjustment of the gesture to the phrase, and the rise and fall of the voice with patient enthusiasm, undismayed by the memory of the thousand Toussaints who had passed, or the certainty of the thousands who were to come.</p>
				<p>“I would call him Napoleon, but Napoleon made his way to empire over broken oaths and through a sea of <b>Blood</b>,” shrieked the diminutive orator with a sudden crescendo as a spitball, artfully thrown, sung by his nose.</p>
				<p>At this sudden shrill notice of approaching manhood, Hickey, in the front row, roused himself with a jerk, put both fists in his eyes and glanced with indignant reproach at the embattled disturber of his privileges. Rest now being impossible, he decided to revenge himself by putting forth a series of faces as a sort of running illustration to the swelling cadences. Shrimp Davis struggled manfully to keep his eyes from the antics of his tormentor. He accosted the ceiling, he looked sadly on the floor. He gazed east and west profoundly, through the open windows, seeking forgetfulness in the distant vistas. All to no purpose. Turn where he might the mocking face of Hickey danced after him. At the height of his eloquence Shrimp choked, clutched at his mouth, exploded into laughter and tumbled ingloriously to his seat amid the delighted shrieks of the class.</p>
				<p>Pa Dater, surprised and puzzled, rose with solemnity and examined the benches for the cause of the outbreak. Then taking up a position on the platform, from which he could command each face, he scanned the roll thoughtfully and announced, “William Orville Hicks.”</p>
				<p>Utterly unprepared and off his guard, Hickey drew up slowly to his feet. Then a flash of inspiration came to him.</p>
				<p>“Please, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dater,” he said with simulated regret, “I chose the same piece.”</p>
				<p>Delighted, he settled down, confident that the fortunate coincidence would at least postpone his appearance.</p>
				<p>“Indeed,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dater with a merciless smile, “isn’t that extraordinary! Well, Hicks, try and lend it a new charm.”</p>
				<p>Hickey hesitated with a calculating glance at the already snickering class. Then forced to carry through the bravado, he climbed over the legs of his seat-mates and up to the platform, made <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dater a deep bow, and gave the class a quick bob of his head, accompanied by a confidential wink from that eye which happened to be out of the master’s scrutiny. He glanced down, shook the wrinkles from his trousers, buttoned his coat, shot his cuffs and assumed the recognised Websterian attitude. Twice he cleared his throat while the class waited expectantly for the eloquence that did not surge. Next he frowned, took one step forward and two back, sunk his hands in his trousers and searched for the missing sentences on the moulding that ran around the edge of the ceiling.</p>
				<p>“Well, Hicks, what’s wrong?” said the master with difficult seriousness. “Haven’t learned it?”</p>
				<p>“Oh, yes, sir,” said Hickey with dignity.</p>
				<p>“What’s the matter then?”</p>
				<p>“Please, sir,” said Hickey, with innocent frankness, “I’m afraid I’m a little embarrassed.”</p>
				<p>The class guffawed loud and long. The idea of Hickey succumbing to such an emotion was irresistible. Shrimp Davis sobbed hysterically and gratefully.</p>
				<p>Hickey alone remained solemn, grieved and misunderstood.</p>
				<p>“Well, Hicks,” continued the master with the ghost of a smile, “embarrassment is something that you should try to overcome.”</p>
				<p>At this Turkey Reiter led Shrimp Davis out in agony.</p>
				<p>“Very well,” said Hickey with an injured look, “I’ll try, sir. I’ll do my best. But I don’t think the conditions are favourable.”</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dater commanded silence. Hickey bowed again and raised his head cloaked in seriousness. A titter acclaimed him. He stopped and looked appealingly at the master.</p>
				<p>“Go on, Hicks, go on,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dater. “Do your best. At least, let us hear the words.”</p>
				<p>Another inspiration came to Hickey. “I don’t think that this is quite regular, sir,” he said aggressively. “I have always taken an interest in my work, and I don’t see why I should be made to sacrifice a good mark.”</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dater bit his lips and quieted the storm with two upraised fingers.</p>
				<p>“Nevertheless, Hicks,” he said, “I think we shall allow you to continue.”</p>
				<p>“What!” exclaimed Hickey as though loath to credit his ears. Then adding calm to dignity, he said, “Very well, sir⁠—not prepared!”</p>
				<p>With the limp of a martyr, he turned his back on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dater, and returned to his seat, where he sat in injured dignity, disdaining to notice the grimaces of his companions.</p>
				<p>Class over, the master summoned Hicks, and bent his brows, boring him with a look of inquisitorial accusation.</p>
				<p>“Hicks,” he said, spacing his words, “I have felt, for the last two weeks, a certain lack of discipline here. Just a word to the wise, Hicks, just a word to <em>the wise</em>!”</p>
				<p>Hickey was pained. Where was the evidence to warrant such a flat accusation? He had been arraigned on suspicion, that was all, absolutely on mere haphazard suspicion. And this was justice?</p>
				<p>Moreover, Hickey’s sensitive nature was shocked. He had always looked upon Pa Dater as an antagonist for whose sense of fair play he would have answered as for his own. And now to be accused thus with innuendo and veiled menace⁠—then he could have faith in no master, not one in the whole faculty! And this grieved Hickey mightily as he went moodily along the halls.</p>
				<p>Now, the code of a schoolboy’s ethics is a marvellously fashioned thing⁠—and by that each master stands or falls. To be accused of an offence of which he is innocent means nothing, for it simply demonstrates the lower calibre of the master’s intelligence. But to be suspected and accused on mere suspicion of something which he has just committed⁠—that is unpardonable, and in absolute violation of the laws of warfare, which decree that the struggle shall be one of wits, without recourse to the methods of the inquisition.</p>
				<p>Hickey, disillusionised and shocked, went glumly down the brownstone steps of Memorial and slowly about the green circle, resisting the shouted invitations to tarry under the nourishing apple trees.</p>
				<p>He felt in him an imperative need to strike back, to instantly break some rule of the tyranny that encompassed him. With this heroic intention he walked nonchalantly up the main street to the jigger-shop, which no underformer may enter until after four. As he approached the forbidden haunt, suddenly the figure of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lorenzo Blackstone Tapping, the young assistant housemaster at the Dickinson, more popularly known as “Tabby,” rolled up on a bicycle.</p>
				<p>“Humph, Hicks!” said at once <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping with a suspicious glance at the jigger-shop directly opposite, “how do you happen to be here out of hours?”</p>
				<p>“Please, sir,” said Hickey glibly, “I’ve got a nail that’s sticking into my foot. I was just going to Bill Orum’s to get it fixed.”</p>
				<p>“Humph!” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping gave him a searching look, hesitated and mounting his wheel continued, unconvinced.</p>
				<p>“He looked back,” said Hickey wrathfully, peering through the misty windows of the cobbler’s shop. Then smarting at the injury, he added, “He didn’t believe me⁠—the sneak!”</p>
				<p>It was a second reminder of the tyranny he lived under. He waited a moment, found the coast clear and flashed across to the jigger-shop. Half drugstore, half confectioner’s, the jigger-shop was the property of Doctor Furnell, whose chief interest in life consisted in a devotion to the theory of the millennium, to the lengthy expounding of which an impoverished boy would sometimes listen in the vain hope of establishing a larger credit. On everyday occasions the shop was under the charge of “Al,” a creature without heart or pity, who knew the exact financial status of each of the four hundred odd boys, even to the amount and date of his allowance. Al made no errors, his sympathies were deaf to the call, and he never (like the doctor), committed the mistake of returning too much change.</p>
				<p>Al welcomed him with a grunt, carefully closing the little glass doors that protected the tray of éclairs and fruit cake, and leaning back drawled:</p>
				<p>“What’s the matter, Hickey? You look kind of discouraged.”</p>
				<p>“Give me a coffee jigger, with a chocolate syrup and a dash of whipped cream⁠—stick a meringue in it,” said Hickey. Then as Al remained passively expectant, he drew out a coin, saying, “Oh, I’ve got the money!”</p>
				<p>He ate gloomily and in silence, refusing to be drawn into conversation. Something was wrong in the scheme of things. Twice in the same hour he had been regarded with suspicion and an accusing glance⁠—his simplest explanation discountenanced! Up to this time, he had been like a hundred other growing boys, loving mischief for mischief’s sake, entering into a lark with no more definite purpose than the zest of an adventure. Of course he regarded a master as the Natural Enemy, but he had viewed him with the tolerance of an agile monkey for a wolf who does not climb. Now slowly it began to dawn upon him that there was an ethical side.</p>
				<p>He vanished suddenly behind the counter as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping, returning, made directly for the jigger-shop. Hickey, at the end of the long counter, crouching amid stationery, heard him moving suspiciously toward his hiding place. Quickly he flicked a pencil down behind the counter and vanished through the back entrance as Tapping, falling into the trap, sprang in the direction of the noise.</p>
				<p>The adventure served two purposes: it gave Hickey the measure of the enemy, and it revealed to him where first to strike.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-1-2" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>The President of the Dickinson by virtue of the necessary authority to suppress all insubordination was Turkey Reiter, broad of shoulder, speckled and battling of face, but the spirit of the Dickinson was Hickey. Hickey it was, lank of figure and keen of feature, bustling of gait and drawling of speech, with face as innocent as a choirboy’s, who planned the revolts against the masters, organised the midnight feasts and the painting of water-towers. His genius lived in the nicknames of the Egghead, Beauty Sawtelle, Morning Glory, Red Dog, Wash Simmons and the Coffee Cooler, which he had bestowed on his comrades with unfailing felicity.</p>
				<p>Great was Hickey, and Macnooder was his prophet. Doc Macnooder roomed just across the hall. He was a sort of genius of all trades. He played quarter on the eleven and ran the half mile close to the two-minute mark. He was the mainstay of Banjo, Mandolin and Glee Clubs. He played the organ in chapel and had composed the famous Hamill House March in memory of his requested departure from that abode. He organised the school dramatic club. He was secretary and treasurer of his class and of every organisation to which he belonged. He received a commission from a dozen firms to sell to his likenesses, stationery, athletic goods, choice sets of books, fin de siècle neckties, fancy waistcoats, fountain pens and safety razors, all of which articles, if report is to be credited, he sold with ease and eloquence at ten percent above the retail price. His room was a combination of a sorcerer’s den and junk-shop. At one corner a row of shelves held a villainous array of ill-smelling black, green and blue bottles, with which he was prepared to instantly cure anything from lockjaw to snake bite.</p>
				<p>The full measure of Macnooder’s activities was never known. Turkey Reiter had even surprised him drawing up a will for Bill Orum, the cobbler, to whom he had just sold a cure for rheumatism.</p>
				<p>It was to Macnooder that Hickey opened his heart and his need of vengeance. It cannot be said that the ethical side of the struggle appealed to Macnooder, who had small predilection for philosophy and none at all for the moral sciences, but the love of mischief was strong. The encounter with Tapping in the morning had suggested a victim near at hand and conveniently inexperienced.</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping in advance of young <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Baldwin (of whom it shall be related) had arrived at Lawrenceville the previous year with latter-day theories on the education of boys. As luck would have it, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rogers, the housemaster, would be absent that evening at a little dinner of old classmates in Princeton, leaving the entire conduct of the Dickinson in the hands of his assistant. In passing, it must be noted that between the two masters there was little sympathy. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rogers had lived too long in the lair of the boy to be at all impressed with the new ideas on education that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping and later <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Baldwin advocated in the blissful state of their ignorance.</p>
				<p>At three o’clock, Tapping departed to convey to a class of impatient boys, decked out in athletic costumes with baseballs stuffed in their pockets and tennis rackets waiting at their sides, the interesting shades of distinction in that exciting study, Greek prose composition. Then Hickey gleefully, while Macnooder guarded the stairs, entered the study, and with a screwdriver loosened the screw which held the inner doorknob, to the extent that it could later be easily removed with the fingers.</p>
				<p>At half past seven o’clock, when study hour had begun, Hickey entered the sanctum ostensibly for advice on a perplexing problem in advanced algebra.</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping did not like Hickey. He regarded him with suspicion, with an instinctive recognition of an enemy. Also he was engaged in the difficult expression of a certain letter which, at that time, presented more difficulties than the binomial theorem. So he inquired with short cordiality, concealing the written page under a blotter:</p>
				<p>“Well, Hicks, what is it?”</p>
				<p>“Please, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping,” said Hickey, who had perceived the move with malignant delight, “I wish you’d look at this problem⁠—it won’t work out.” He added (shades of a thousand boys!), “I think there must be some mistake in the book.”</p>
				<p>Now, the chief miseries of a young assistant master centre about the study hours; when theory demands that he should be ready to advise and instruct the discouraged boyish mind on any subject figuring in the curriculum, whatever be his preference or his prejudice. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping, who romped over the Greek and Latin page, had an hereditary weakness in the mathematics, a failing that the boys had discovered and instantly turned to their profit. He took the book, glanced at the problem and began to jot down a line of figures. Hickey, meanwhile, with his back to the door, brazenly extracted the loosened screw.</p>
				<p>Finally, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping, becoming hopelessly entangled, raised his head and said with a disdainful smile: “Hicks, I think you had better put a little work on this⁠—just a little work!”</p>
				<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping, I don’t understand it,” said Hickey, adding to himself, “Old Tabby is up a tree!”</p>
				<p>“Nonsense⁠—perfectly easy, perfectly simple,” said Tapping, returning the book with a gesture of dismissal, “requires a little application, Hicks, just a little application⁠—that’s all.”</p>
				<p>Hickey, putting on his most injured look, bowed to injustice and departed at the moment that Turkey Reiter entered, seeking assistance in French. Upon his tracks, without an interval, succeeded Macnooder with a German composition, Hungry Smeed to discuss history, the Egghead on a question of spelling, and Beauty Sawtelle in thirst for information about the Middle Ages. Finally, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping’s patience, according to Macnooder’s prophetic calculation, burst on a question of biblical interpretation, and announcing wrathfully that he could no longer be disturbed, he ushered out the last tormentor and shut the door with violence.</p>
				<p>Presently Hickey stole up on tiptoe and fastening a noose over the knob, gave a signal. The string, pulled by a dozen equally responsible hands, carried away the knob, which fell with a tiny crash and spun in crazy circles on the floor. The fall of the inner useless knob was heard on the inside of the door and the exclamation that burst from the startled master. The tyrant was caged⁠—the house was at their pleasure!</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping committed the initial mistake of knocking twice imperiously on the door and commanding, “Open at once.”</p>
				<p>Two knocks answered him. Then he struck three violent blows and three violent echoes returned, while a bunch of wriggling, chuckling boys clustered at every crack of the door, listening with strained ears for the muffled roars that came from within.</p>
				<p>While one group began a game of leapfrog, another, under the guidance of Hickey, descended into the housemaster’s quarters and proceeded to attend to the rearrangement of the various rooms. Working beaver-like with whispered cautions, they rapidly exchanged the furniture of the parlour with the dining-room, grouping each transformed room, exactly as the original had been.</p>
				<p>Then they placed the six-foot water-cooler directly in front of the entrance with a tin pan balanced, to give the alarm, and shaking with silent expectant laughter extinguished all lights, undressed and returned to the corridors, white, shadowy forms, to wait developments. Meanwhile, the caged assistant master continued to pound upon the door with a fury that betokened a state of approaching hysteria.</p>
				<p>At half past ten, suddenly the tin pan crashed horribly on the floor. A second later every boy was sleeping loudly in his bed. Astonished at such a reception, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Rogers groped into the darkness and fell against the water-cooler, which in his excitement he embraced and carried over with him to the floor. Recovering himself, he lighted the gas and perceived the transformed parlour and dining-room. Then he started for the assistant housemaster’s rooms, with long, angry bounds, saying incoherent, expressive things to himself.</p>
				<p>The ordeal that young <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping faced, from his superior, one hour later when the door had been opened, was distinctly unpleasant, and was not made the more agreeable from the fact that every rebuke resounded through the house, and carried joy and comfort to the listening boys.</p>
				<p>The housemaster would hear no explanation; in fact, explanations were about the last thing he wanted. He desired to express his disgust, his indignation and his rage, and he did so magnificently.</p>
				<p>“May I say one word, sir?” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping in a lull.</p>
				<p>“Quite unnecessary, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping,” cut in the still angry master; “I don’t wish any explanations. Such a thing as this has never happened in the history of this institution. That’s all I wish to know. You forget that you are not left in charge of a young ladies’ seminary.”</p>
				<p>“Very well, sir,” said the mortified <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping. “May I ask what you intend to do about this act of insubordination?”</p>
				<p>“That is what I intend to ask <em>you</em>, sir,” replied his superior. “Good night.”</p>
				<p>The next day after luncheon, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping summoned the house to his study and addressed them as follows:</p>
				<p>“Young gentlemen of the Dickinson House, I don’t think you have any doubt as to why I have called you here. A very serious breach of discipline has taken place⁠—one that cannot be overlooked. The sooner we meet the situation in the right spirit, gravely, with seriousness, the sooner will we meet each other in that spirit of harmony and friendly understanding that should exist between pupil and master. I am willing to make some allowance for the spirit of mischief, but none for an exhibition of untruthfulness. I warn you that I know, that I <em>know</em> who were the ringleaders in last night’s outrage.” Here he stopped and glanced in succession at each individual boy. Then suddenly turning, he said:</p>
				<p>“Hicks, were you concerned in this?”</p>
				<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping,” said Hickey, with the air of a martyr, “I refuse to answer.”</p>
				<p>“On what ground?”</p>
				<p>“On the ground that I will not furnish any clue whatsoever.”</p>
				<p>“I shall deal with your case later.”</p>
				<p>“Very well, sir.”</p>
				<p>“Macnooder,” continued <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping, “what do you know about this?”</p>
				<p>“I refuse to answer, sir.”</p>
				<p>At each demand, the same refusal.</p>
				<p>Tapping, repulsed in his first attempt, hesitated and reflected. Above all things he did not wish to perpetuate last night’s humiliation, and to continue the combat meant an accusation en bloc against the Dickinson House before the head master.</p>
				<p>“Hicks, Macnooder and Reiter, wait here,” he said suddenly; “the rest may go.”</p>
				<p>He walked up and down before the three a moment, and then said: “Reiter, you may go; you, too, Macnooder.”</p>
				<p>Hickey, thus deprived of all support, remained defiant.</p>
				<p>“May I ask,” he said indignantly, “why I am picked out?”</p>
				<p>“Hicks,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping sternly, without replying to the question, “I know pretty well who was the ringleader in this, and other things that have been going on in the past. I warn you, my boy, I shall keep my eye on you from this time forth. That’s all I want to say to you. Look out for yourself!”</p>
				<p>Hickey could hardly restrain the tears. He went out with deadly wrath boiling in his heart. The idea of singling him out from the whole house in that way! So then every hand was against him; he had no security; he was marked for suspicion, his downfall determined upon!</p>
				<p>For one brief moment his spirit, the spirit of indomitable, battling boyhood, failed him, and he felt the grey impossibility of contending against tyrants. But only a moment, and then with a return of the old fighting spirit he suddenly conceived the idea of single-handedly defying the whole organised hereditary and intrenched tyranny that sought to crush him, of matching his wits against the hydra despotism, perhaps, going down gloriously like Spartacus, for the cause, but leaving behind a name that should roll down the generations of future boys.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
