<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Martyrdom of William Hicks</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Hickey had now reached the height of his fame. Intoxicated by success, he forgot all prudence, or rather his revolt became an appetite that demanded constant feeding. He no longer concealed his past exploits, he even went so far as to announce the escapades he planned.</p>
			<p>“You are running your head into the noose, Hickey, my boy,” said Macnooder, sadly; “every master in the school has got his eye on you.”</p>
			<p>“I know it,” said Hickey proudly, “but they’ve got to catch me.”</p>
			<p>“Your position is different,” objected Macnooder, “now you are suspected. And do you want me to tell you the truth? Your trick about the clappers was too clever. If you could imagine that, you were at the bottom of other things. That’s what the Doctor will say to himself when he thinks it over.”</p>
			<p>“The Doctor plays square,” retorted Hickey; “he won’t do anything on suspicion. Let him try and catch me, let them all try. If they get me fair and square, I’ll take my punishment. I say, Doc, just you wait. I’ve got something up my sleeve that’ll make them all sit up.”</p>
			<p>“Good Lord!” said the Egghead, who was of the party, “you don’t mean you’re going on?”</p>
			<p>“Egghead,” said Hickey, impressively, “I’ve made up my mind that I just can’t live without doing one thing more!”</p>
			<p>“Heavens, Hickey! what now?”</p>
			<p>“I’ve got a craving, Egghead, to sleep in Tabby’s bed.”</p>
			<p>“No!”</p>
			<p>“Fact.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
			<p>“Just that. I intend to sleep, not just pop in and out, to <em>sleep</em> two hours in Tabby’s nice, white, little bed.”</p>
			<p>“Gee whiz, Hickey! When?”</p>
			<p>“Some night that’s coming pretty soon.”</p>
			<p>“When Tabby’s away⁠—”</p>
			<p>“No, sir, when Tabby’s here⁠—after Tabby himself has been in it. After that I’m going to get back at Big Brother.”</p>
			<p>“You’re crazy!”</p>
			<p>“I’m backing my feelings.”</p>
			<p>“You’ll bet on it?”</p>
			<p>“As much as you want.”</p>
			<p>The scornful Egghead, thus provoked, offered ten to one against him. Hickey accepted at once.</p>
			<p>During the day the news spread and the bets came flying in. As to his plans, Hickey preserved a cloaked mystery, promising only that the feat should take place within the fortnight.</p>
			<p>Each night toward midnight, he slipped out of Sawtelle’s window (Sawtelle being sworn to deadly secrecy). He remained out an hour, sometimes two, and came back sleepy and chuckling. About this time the report began to spread that burglars were in the vicinity.</p>
			<p>The Gutter Pup, who roomed on the first floor of the Woodhull, took a solemn oath that having been waked up by a strange scratching noise at his window, he had seen four masked figures with bull’s-eye lanterns scurrying away. The next report came from Davis with added picturesqueness. The school became wrought up to an extraordinary pitch of excitement in which even the masters joined after a period of incredulity.</p>
			<p>When the proper stage of frenzy arrived, Hickey took into his confidence a dozen allies.</p>
			<p>At exactly two o’clock on a moonless night, Beauty Sawtelle, waiting, watch in hand, gave a horrid shriek and sent a baseball bat crashing through his window, where he afterward swore four masked faces had glared in on him. At the same time the Egghead raised his window and emptied a revolver into the air, shouting:</p>
			<p>“Thieves, thieves, there they go!”</p>
			<p>Immediately every waiting boy sprang out of bed armed with revolvers, shotguns, brickbats, Japanese swords and what not, and rushed downstairs, shouting:</p>
			<p>“Stop thief!”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping, startled from his slumbers by the uproar, seized a bird-gun and, guided by Hungry Smeed and the Red Dog, rushed out of doors and valorously took the lead of the searching party. By this time the racket had spread about the campus and boys in flimsy garments, ludicrously armed, came pouring out the other houses and joined the wild hunt for the masked marauders. Suddenly, from the direction of Foundation House, a series of shots exploded amid yells of excitement. At once the mass that had been churning in the middle of the campus, set off with a rush. The cry went up that the burglars had been discovered and were fleeing down the road to Trenton. Five minutes later the campus was silent, as boys and masters swept along the highway, their cries growing fainter in the distance.</p>
			<p>Meanwhile, Hickey had not lost a second. Hardly had <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping’s pink pajamas rushed from the Dickinson, when Hickey, entering the study, locked the door and set to work. In a jiffy he had the mattress and bedclothes out the window, down into the waiting hands of Macnooder and the Egghead, who piled them on a ready wheelbarrow. In less than five minutes the iron bedstead, separated into its four component parts, followed. The whole, packed on the wheelbarrow, was hastily rushed into the darkness by the rollicking three. According to the plan, Hickey directed them past Memorial and into the baseball cage, where, by the light of the indispensable dark-lantern, they put the bed together, placed on it the bedding, and saw Hickey crawl blissfully under cover.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>When <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping returned after an hour’s fruitless pursuit down the dusty road, it had begun to dawn upon him, in common with other athletic members of the faculty, that he had been hoaxed. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping was very sensitive to his dignity, and dignity was exceedingly difficult in pajamas, in the chill of a night with a ridiculous bird-gun over his shoulder and an assorted lot of semi-bare savages chuckling about him. Tired, covered with dust, and sheepish, he returned to the Dickinson, gave orders for every one to return to his room and wearily toiled up to seek his comfortable bed.</p>
			<p>The vacancy that greeted his eyes left him absolutely incredulous, then beside himself with rage. If on that moment he could have laid his hands on Hickey, he would have done him bodily injury. That Hickey was the perpetrator of this new outrage, as of the previous ones, he never for a moment doubted. His instinct needed no proofs, and in such enmities the instinct is strong. He went directly to Hickey’s room, finding it, as he had expected, empty. He sat there half an hour, an hour, fruitlessly. Then he made the rounds of the house and returned to the room, seated himself, folded his arms violently, set his teeth and prepared to wait. He heard four o’clock strike, then five, and he began to nod. He rose, shook himself, returned to his seat and presently fell asleep, and in this condition Hickey, returning, found him.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The bell rang six, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping, starting up guiltily, glanced hastily at the bed and assured himself thankfully that it was empty. Moreover, conclusive evidence, the counterpane had not been turned down, so Hickey had not gone to bed at all.</p>
			<p>By prodigies of will power he remained awake, consoled by the fact that he held at last the evidence needed to debarrass himself of his tormentor. At seven o’clock the gym bell rang the rising hour. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping rose triumphant. Suddenly he stopped and looked down in horror. Something had moved under the bed. The next moment Hickey’s face appeared under the skirts of the trailing bedspread⁠—Hickey’s face, a mirror of sleepy amazement, as he innocently asked:</p>
			<p>“Why, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping, what <em>is</em> the matter?”</p>
			<p>“Hicks!” exclaimed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping, too astounded to gather his thoughts, “is that you, Hicks?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“What are you doing under there?”</p>
			<p>“Please sir,” said Hickey, “I’m troubled with insomnia and sometimes this is the only way I can sleep.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>At two o’clock Hickey was a second time summoned to Foundation House. He went in perfect faith. Nothing had miscarried, there was not the slightest evidence against him. If he was questioned he would refuse to answer⁠—that was all. It had been a morning of exquisite triumph for him. Tabby’s bed had not been discovered until ten o’clock, and the transferal to the Dickinson, made in full daylight, had been witnessed by the assembled school. He went across the campus, light of feet and proud of heart, aware of the scores of discreetly admiring eyes that followed him, hearing pleasantly the murmurs which buzzed after him:</p>
			<p>“Oh, you prodigious Hickey⁠—oh, you daredevil!”</p>
			<p>Of course, the Doctor would be in a towering rage. Hickey was not unreasonable, he understood and expected a natural exhibition of vexation. What could the Doctor do, after all? Ask him questions which he would refuse to answer⁠—that was all, but that was not evidence.</p>
			<p>He found the Doctor alone, quietly writing at his desk, and received a smile and an invitation to be seated. Somehow the tranquillity of the head master’s attitude did not reassure Hickey. He would have preferred a little more agitation, but this satisfied calm was disquieting.</p>
			<p>He stood with his hands behind his back, twirling his cap, studying the photographs of Grecian architecture on the walls, finding it awfully still and wishing the Doctor would begin.</p>
			<p>Presently the Doctor turned, put down his spectacles, shoved back from the desk and glanced at Hickey with a smile, saying:</p>
			<p>“Well, Hicks, we’re going to let you go.”</p>
			<p>“Beg your pardon, sir,” said Hickey, smiling frankly back, “you said⁠—”</p>
			<p>“We’re going to let you take a vacation.”</p>
			<p>“Me?”</p>
			<p>“You.”</p>
			<p>Hickey stood a long moment, open-mouthed, staring.</p>
			<p>“Do you mean to say,” he said, at last, with an effort, “that I am expelled?”</p>
			<p>“Not expelled,” said the Doctor, suavely, “we don’t like that word; we’re going to let you go, that’s all.”</p>
			<p>“For what reason?” said Hickey, defiantly.</p>
			<p>“For no reason at all,” answered the Doctor, smoothly. “There is no reason, there can be no reason, Hicks. We’re just naturally going to make up our minds to part with you. You see, Hicks,” he continued, tilting back and gazing reminiscently at the ceiling, “we’ve had a rather agitated session here, rather extraordinary. The trouble seems to have broken out in the Dickinson about the time of the little surprise party at which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Tapping did not assist! Then a few days later our chapel service was disturbed and our janitor put to considerable trouble; next the school routine was thrown into confusion by the removal of the clapper. We passed a very disagreeable period⁠—much confusion, very little study, and the nerves of the faculty were thrown into such a state that even you, Hicks, were suspected. Then there was the political campaign, a subject too painful to analyse. Last night we lost a great deal of sleep⁠—and sleep is most necessary to the growing boy. All these events have followed with great regularity, and while they have not lacked in picturesqueness, we have, we fear, been forgetting the main object of our life here⁠—to study a little.”</p>
			<p>“Doctor, I⁠—” broke in Hickey.</p>
			<p>“No, Hicks, you misunderstand me,” said the Doctor, reproachfully. “All this is true, but that is <em>not</em> why we are going to let you go. We are going to let you go, Hicks, for a much more conscientious reason; we’re parting with you, Hicks, because we feel we no longer have anything to teach you.”</p>
			<p>“Doctor, I’d like to know,” began Hickey, with a great lump in his throat. Then he stopped and looked at the floor. He knew his hour had sounded.</p>
			<p>“Hicks, we part in sorrow,” said the Doctor, “but we have the greatest faith in your career. We expect in a few years to claim you as one of our foremost alumni. Perhaps some day you will give us a library which we will name after you. No, don’t be disheartened. We have the greatest admiration for your talents, admiration and respect. Anyone who can persuade two hundred and fifty keen-eyed Lawrenceville boys to pay one dollar apiece for silver gilt scrap-iron souvenirs worth eleven cents apiece because they may or may not be genuine bits of a stolen clapper⁠—anyone who can do that is needed in the commercial development of our country.”</p>
			<p>“Doctor, do you⁠—do you call this justice?” said Hickey, with tears in his voice.</p>
			<p>“No,” said the Doctor, frankly, “I call it a display of force. You see, Hicks, you’ve beaten us at every point, and so all we can do is to let you go.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll hire a lawyer,” said Hicks, brokenly.</p>
			<p>“I thought you would,” said the Doctor, “only I hope you will be easy on us, Hicks, for we haven’t much money for damage suits.”</p>
			<p>“Then I’m to be fired,” said Hickey, forcing back the tears, “fired just for nothing!”</p>
			<p>“Just for nothing, Hicks,” assented the Doctor, rising to close the painful interview, “and, Hicks, as one last favour, we would like to request that it be by the evening train. We have lost a great deal of sleep lately.”</p>
			<p>“Just for nothing,” repeated Hickey, hoarsely.</p>
			<p>“Just for nothing,” replied the Doctor, as he closed the door.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>At six o’clock, in the midst of indignant hundreds, Hickey climbed to the top of the stage, where his trunks had already been deposited. Nothing could comfort him, neither the roaring cheers that echoed again and again to his name, nor the hundreds of silent hand-shakes or muttered vows to continue the good fight. His spirit was broken. All was dark before him. Neither right nor justice existed in the world.</p>
			<p>Egghead and Macnooder, visibly affected, reached up for the last hand-shakes.</p>
			<p>“Keep a stiff upper lip, old man,” said the Egghead.</p>
			<p>“Don’t you worry, Hickey, old boy,” said Macnooder; “we’ll attend to Tabby.”</p>
			<p>Then Hickey, bitterly, from the caverns of his heart, spoke, raising his fist toward Tabby’s study window.</p>
			<p>“He hadn’t any proof,” he said, brokenly, “no proof⁠—damn him!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
